The Fourth World (2): Plantation
Scientists of People's Repblic of China were proud with their newest achievement, which was quickly introduced on the Moon. It was called MPS, the Moon Positioning System, something like GPS on the Earth. GPS, however, required geostationary satellites to work and the Moon had none of these. Engineers of the Moon Colony dealt with this prolem expertly. MPS was designed similar to a cellular telecommunication system. Transmitters of the signal with lunar coordinates were located in the perimeter of several kilometers from the center of the Moon Colony.

The Colony. Life amids the dead, frosty desert, the oasis of the law and rightousness, learnt children at school. Nonetheless, there were also those who chose another way. The rebels living outside the Colony, outcasts, vagrands, outlaws. read the school text book. "We prefer to die free, than live in the slavery," they said, but their opinion wasn't mentioned in the hand book.

There could be different reasons for members of the colony to meet with rebels. Trade was the main one. To minimize such kind of contacts, the moon government ordered mounting MPS receivers in moon inhabitants’ spacesuits.

Xu Ailiu, Kuohan’s mother and the widow after Shi Kuotou, the rebel, also had a spacesit of that kind. Recently, she had a great change in her life. The modification referred to her work. She changed the mine to another use; the moss plantation within a Plexiglass dome which could produce oxygen. Lenses in several points of the dome focused the sunlight, which warmed the air up and improved the process of photosynthesis.

“Look,” said Ailiu to Ding Laotan, her co-worker.” The moss here grows really big.”

“Indeed. It’s because this point is directly under the big lens,” Laotan said, pointing at the ceiling.

Ailiu looked up and then again at the moss. Illuminated with the sunlight more than many other places of the plantation, it was bigger and more green there.

“These colors here are so … intensive and vibrant. Not like those gray rocks and dust outside. Even when I had found some gold ore while working in the mine, it was not so colorful.”

Laotan smiled.

"This plant was designed very well. The government chose engineers who built it on recently discovered water resources, or... rather ice resources. The light, focused by the lens not only causes the moss grow faster, but also melts the ice."

"I see. But I thought we need to import the water from the Earth."

"Yes, we still do. The supplies on the Moon are insufficient. The moss needs a lot of water."

Ailiu nodded her head. Laotan worked much longer in the moss plant from Ailiu. She was experienced.

Like all Moon inhabitants, Laotan was short. She had sparse, dark hair and blue eyes, slighted only gently. Her appearance was a combination of the genetic heritage of her Chinese ancestors and the effect of starvation. The lack of fat made her Mongolian fold rather thin. She liked to smile showing her perfectly white teeth, but everyone knew they were artificial. No one over twenty had natural teeth, not on the Moon.

A shift in the moss plant was twelve hours. Another twelve workers spent sleeping and entertaining. Each worker had 27 shifts a day, since a single lunar day was nearly a month on the Earth. Yet, people on the Moon were used to these conditions. They lived their whole life this way.

*****

Two days after Ailiu's talk with Laotan, the moss was ready to harvest. All plant workers, including the women, collected grown, small green bushes to their baskets. Soon, a vehicle arrived to transport the moss to one of fodder plants, a kind of food processing factory making it edible. It was a brand new technology; the moon government believed it would make their homeland independent from supplies from the Earth.

Everybody was so busy, filling their baskets with crops and later watching the food vehicles leaving that only Ailiu noticed Laotan had been gone. She quickly decided to look for her.

"Ding Laotan! Where are you?"

No answer.

Ailiu decided to check each corner of the plant. Once she got to so-called Dead End of the dome, the place with almost no moss, she thought she saw something ... outside.

Something moved behind that rock, she thought.

Ailiu could make only two steps forward and the dome surface stopped her. Nevertheless, she easily found out what had happened.

I can recognize that spacesuit. It's Laotan... And she met someone. Oh! They are dating, Ailiu smiled watching the couple hugging clumsy. Those spacesuits are a great obstacle to express feelings, but people in love are happy with every second spend together, no matter the conditions.

She smiled again, recalling her dates with Shi Kuotou.

The guy is really big, Ailiu realized. Moon inhabitants weren't so big unless...

He must have been born on the Earth!

The romantic picture before her eyes was very similar to her dates eight years ago, with her husband, now dead. But... something more was kindred.

He must be a rebel! I have never seen him in the Colony.

She felt her heart pounding. The stream of thoughts and emotions flowed through her body. Suddenly, she felt she should protect her friend from that relationship. It could bring a great pain to Laotan. Ailiu knew the feeling of rejection too well, and the result of her relationship was young Kuohan.

Yet, there was no time to think about it. Ailiu noticed Wang Xiuying, another worker of the plant watching her. She returned to her duties. After short cleaning, the shift was over.

*****

Ailiu and Laotan had the next shift together in seventy two hours. Ailiu saw her friend cheerful.  She decided not to touch the gentle subject of romance with a rebel. Yet, her womanly intuition and curiosity prevailed.

“What is his name?” Ailiu asked when she was sure they were alone with Laotan.

“Sorry, no idea what you are talking about.” Laotan's face revealed her anxiety.

Ailiu, however, knew how to be gentle and made her friend calm down. Laotan confirmed the romance. The couple was together for more than a month.

“Please, be careful. You know what the punishment is,” she said at the end of their talk.

Laotan turned her head and her gaze fixed the distance. She narrowed her lips, just as if she wanted to muffle anger.

“What is life here? Not only the conditions are hard but this pathetic government limits our basic needs!”

Laotan was still dating with her rebel. She was very careful. The only thing Ailiu learnt was his name, Dai Wengbou. She didn't want to know more.

After nearly four days, which reckoned to Earth time was over three months, Laotan fainted at work. The manager sent her to obligatory examinations. The result was quick and confirmed Ailiu's misgiving. Her friend was pregnant.

“I'm worried about you, my friend.” she said to Laotan. “The authorities will investigate who the father is. Is there anything I can do to help you?”

Laotan shook her head. She knew her situation was hopeless. Indeed, she was taken in custody the same day. The investigation and trial were quick. MPS records from her spacesuits confirmed she was leaving the Colony on regular basis. The Lunar People's Armed Police set an ambush in most frequent rendezvous sites and easily caught Dai Wengbou, Laotan's lover. The couple was accused of  high treason.

Since the Moon Colony was inhabited either by Chinese settlers or their descendant, the local government automatically introduced the one-child-policy. Indeed, harsh lunar conditions were even more appropriate for such a strict law than the state of China on the Earth. Without severe birth control the Colony would surely suffer starvation. It was far easier to control the number of births than to deal with the problem of starving people. Laotan remembered few cases in her neighborhood when the Lunar People's Police caught pregnant women who had already born one child. They were taken directly to a hospital where doctors performed obligatory abortions.

Sitting in a custody, Laotan wondered what would happen to her unborn child. Only one thing was obvious for her – Xu Ailiu, who already had a son, couldn't adopt her infant...

Although time was passing slowly in prison, finally Laotan stood before a judge. She was trembling. Contrary to the custody, the trial was quick. When the judge read the verdict, Laotan's lover was standing just few yards from her.

“I condemn Dai Wengbou for capital punishment!”

The judge's words stroke Laotan like a lightning.

My baby will lose the father, she thought. A while later she realized the sentence could not be different. Not for high treason.

“Death sentence for Ding Laotan and abortion for her unborn baby!”

Surprisingly, the sentenced calmed down Laotan. She lost all her hope and her anxiety turned into indifference.

Psychologists often try to understand this phenomenon. Why a person sentenced to death doesn't resist, but  calmly approaches an executioner. Why does a sentenced submissively freely sit on an electric chair or stand before firing squad?

One needed to be in Laotan's skin to understood it. Having heard the triple sentence, she had nothing to care for.

*****

When the abortion was done. Laotan, half numb after narcosis, was assisted by the police in her last walk to so called Siwang-Gu, the Death Valley. The area of ten square miles was surrounded with tall rocks impossible to climb on in a spacesuit. The only way back was strongly guarded by the police. Laotan, however, didn't think about escaping.

“First you, my unborn baby, now me,” she repeated like a mantra.

Equipped with oxygen supplies for five minutes, she entered the site of her doom. Yet, she knew she wasn't going to wait for suffocation.

She remembered her grandma telling about Buddha's teaching, about reincarnation.

“I hope to meet you, my child in another, better life,” she said quietly for good-bye.

She took her helmet off and released her soul. The cerebral hemorrhage, caused by low pressure of the Moon atmosphere, was quick and deadly.

*****

Kuohan hugged his mom. He hardly knew Laotan, only from Ailiu's telling. This was the first funeral he took part in. His father wasn't buried officially, since he was a rebel. The police allowed Ailiu to take Laotan's body and bury her behind the Colony. Due to lack of fungus and bacteria, Laotan's body covered with rocks was supposed to lie mummified on the Moon surface for ages.

The one-child policy in present China allows to force women to abortion if they have alread had one child. © Aug 2013, Krzysztof Drzazga
