The Fourth World (1): Moon story
Ailiu smiled to her seven-year-old son Kuohan. They both loved the walk on a seaside of the ocean. Ailiu wanted to introduce it as a kind of tradition to her relation with Kuohan. He was the only man in her life, and he knew his father died in a mine before he was born. She did her best to minimize Kuohan's longing for his father. Yet, she wasn't able to be his both parents simultaneously. That walk by the ocean was connected with watching the sunrise.

Ailiu imagined how beautiful would a similar scenery be on the Earth. Unfortunately she had never been there. Just like her dead husband and her son she was born and raised on the Moon. She and her son had wore spacesuits and the ocean  before them was Oceanus Procellarum. People on the Earth can see it as a big dark area on the moon surface. Never was there any water in it, but scientists called it ocean as millions of years ago it was filled with lava.

People's Republic of China started colonizing the Moon in 2081. The Fourth World was an appropriate term and was quickly accepted by the Earth community. The living conditions were very poor. From the beginning, people worked according to the program 'Minerals for air'. Ores of iron, copper, and occasionally even silver, gold, and platinum were exchanged for huge containers of compressed air. The rate for iron ore was one to two and a half in favor of iron. Although for people on Earth these rates were ridiculous, the inhabitants of the Moon had no choice. However, the best Moon product was Hel3 with exchange rate one to ten. Only thirty tones on Hel3 were sufficient to meet the United States needs for energy. Use of this element shut ecologists' mouths forever. The nuclear reaction of Hel-3 and Deuterium left no nuclear waste. Clean and highly efficient energy.

When Ailiu and Kuohan were standing on the shore of the ocean, she embraced her kid. Kuohan turned his head and looked at the mom. Somehow he felt her warmth despite the spacesuit.

After a minute of tenderness, Kuohan turned his head left and saw a gray building in the distance.

"Mom? Can we go to the internet cafe?" he asked via the transceiver.

Ailiu sighed.

"We don't have much money, my dear. Most I have to spend on the air and on food. But... all right. However, the next visit to the cafe you can have only after five days."

"All right, mom. Thank you!"

They moved towards the cafe. Kuohan knew that five days was a lot of time. One day on the Moon was over twenty seven on the Earth. The planet's satellite rotated very slowly.

They entered the cafe.

'Moon Net. The best internet cafe on the coast,' read the signboard over the entrance. They moved in.

Hermetic door closed behind them. Soon the room was filled with the air and a special indicator lamp announced they could take off their spacesuits. Few seconds after they did another hermetic door opened. They walked inside.

Only now they could feel some smell. Spacesuits didn't let any smell in.

"Internet, half an hour," said Ailiu to the guy behind the desk.

"Twenty four credits," he answered.

Ailiu paid with her credit card. She was given a computer, a folded square foil three to five feet. She passed it to Kuohan. Her son sat down on the nearest vacant chair in the hall and turned the computer on.

Ailiu looked at the recipe she was given.
Ten credits for the Internet access and fourteen for the air, total twenty four credits she read and looked at her son.

Kuohan had already opened some web site and burst with laughing.

"Look at those fat men, mom!" he shouted pointing at the photographs of people displayed on a touch screen of the computer.

Ailiu approached him and patted tenderly.

"You call them fat men, Kuohan, but on the Earth they are just normal average people. For the citizens of the Earth we are very thin and skinny. Everything on the Moon is more or less six times less heavy than on the Earth. That's why we will never develop such big bodies with muscles and fat."

Kuohan didn't care much about his mom's explanations, and browsed on another site with photos. A big picture of Kim Kardashian in bikini appeared on the screen.

"What an ugly fat woman! Hahaha!"

After a while Kuohan opened Marilyn Monroe's photo and expressed a similar opinion.

Ailiu smiled.

"These photos are very old. Both ladies died a long time ago. If you had a chance to meet your great-great-great grandparents, you would have find them fat as well."

Ailiu was watching her beloved boy with a great love. His laugh, the laugh of a careless child was wonderful. So were his few teeth he still had. Food on the Moon lacked minerals and micro-elements . Everyone was supposed to experience health problems especially with teeth and bones sooner or later.

When Kuohan stopped laughing he wondered.

"Our ancestors come from the Earth..."

"That's right! They lived in the country called 'The Middle of the World', but others called it People's Republic of China."

Kuohan checked the term 'China'  in Wikipedia. Then he opened the Wikipedia site of his fatherland, The Moon Colony.

"Mom, they use the same language we do," the boy said.

"I told you. Our ancestors come from China. Yes, we use the language called Canton Chinese on the Earth. Yet, life here is much harder than on the Earth."

"Can we go to the Earth some day?"

"I don't think it's possible. Our bodies would be extremely heavy there. We would probably not survive such a journey."

Kuohan returned to browsing Internet sites. For the remaining time in the cafe Ailiu was watching her son having fun with other pictures. Internet was the best entertainment on the Moon. Nevertheless, Ailiu was fully aware that it was censored.

Two years ago I could watch photographs and videos from the twentieth century, she thought. I remember the photos of prisoners from concentration camps of so called World War Two. liked watching the those pictures, because people on them looked so familiar. They were very similar to us. Fat people from the Earth explained they had suffered a great injustice of starvation and slavery. However, for every Moon citizen they looked ... just normal. Even though I can imagine that it was a great tragedy they experienced and they could really have problems on the Earth where everything is six times more heavy, I also don't see anything strange in how they looked like. Now the government denied the access to those photographs. It's obvious people on the Earth don't want us to refer the situation of he slavery workers to ours. Some guys could really revolt for that reason and ... there has been enough problems with the rebels so far."

Their time was almost up. Soon the internet access was blocked. Kuohan folded the foil computer and returned it to the cash register.

He took his mom's hand. For the little guy the direct skin to skin contact didn't happen very often. most time together they spent outside with their spacesuits on.

Now they had to put them on too. Ailiu dressed her son first, carefully checking if everything was mounted properly. The smallest leak would be deadly for Kuohan. To double check the sealing, she ran the auto check procedure in the spacesuit controller on the chest.

She put her helmet on.

"Soon I'll have to buy you a bigger size, son," she said to the microphone and to Kuohan.

Seeing the young boy smiled back she added

"Mom is happy. You are growing bigger and bigger..."

And worried she would have to work over time to earn money for a new spacesuit, she thought.

Transceivers were programmed in the way they provided communication automatically with all people within three meter perimeter.

Ailiu sighed. She put on the rest of her spacesuit with ease. However, she had to take off her helmet to attach it properly to the suit.

And then she heard screaming. It was muffled, as the hermetic door were a pretty good barrier for the sound. Yet, not a perfect one. Ailiu was sure the screams were coming from the cafe room. They sounded with panic, fear, and horror.

"Something very bad must just have happened there," she said to herself.

Ailiu felt her heart pounding. She wanted to bring help somehow, but seconds later her will to save the people inside the cafe was suppressed with a stronger, more basic feelings.

I must protect Kuohan above all, flashed in her mind..

Quickly, she put on the rest of her suit, took her son's hand, and they both left the building.

"Don't make a move!" she heard after several steps outside.

Slowly, Ailiu turned her head. A quick glance was enough to realize the whole situation, including the reason of the drama in the cafe.

The sunlight was very weak on the Moon, but its reflection in a spike of a crossbow arrow nearly stung Ailiu's eyes.

She stepped back  involuntarily, and despite the attacker's warning. She stood between him and Kuohan.

As guns with classic powder bullets were useless in the atmosphere of the Moon, where burning the powder was impossible, rebels used ancient weapons. Clubs, bows, swords, and crossbows were more deadly here than on the Earth. A single hit with a club could easily brake the space helmet glass, causing the death of its owner within seconds.

There were three of them. It took Ailiu a while to realize that two other rebels were several yards behind the guy with a crossbow. They were busy with something Ailiu could not see.

People said rebels lived on the Dark Side of the Moon. Mutineers chose freedom instead of obedience to the unfair government and unjust cooperation with the Earth. This choice, however, meant even harder living conditions. They had to steal food and air on regular basic. The latter kind of theft had just happened.

"You've disconnected the tank with the air causing the death of people inside the cafe," Ailiu spoke the words of accusation carefully but sturdily. The tone of her words was expertly adjusted not to make the attackers angry.

Ailiu realized that two other guys were rolling the tank with compressed air. Ailiu also noticed they had sealed the joint of the tank with some glue foam to prevent releasing the air. Suddenly, one of the guys who were rolling g the tank stopped and headed towards her with a club.

"These two should also be assassinated,"  he said approaching her.

Ailiu trembled, but also saw the guy with the crossbow hesitated.

For a minute she couldn't hear the attacker's voices.

They must have switched to a dedicated channel and obviously they are discussing what shall they do to us, she thought.

Instinctively, Ailiu moved her right hand back and held Kuohan. During the minute of silence she clearly heard the beating of her heart. It was pounding heavily.

"What's your name?" the attacker's question broke the silence.

"Xu Ailiu," she answered.

"The boy?"

"Shi Kuohan"

"Are you related to Shi Kuotou?"

"Yes. He's... he was my husband and Kuohan's father."

Rebels looked at each other and both nodded their heads.

"You can go!"

The sudden change of the situation didn't reach her mind at once.

"What are you waiting for? Move! Get out!" urged the second attacker. "You were lucky but beware! Not all the rebels respect the legendary Shi Kuotou!"

Ailiu turned and ordered Kuohan to walk before her. Several jumps on the Moon surface took them many yards away from the rebels.

When they reached a secure distance, both Ailiu and Kuohan slowed down.

Although Ailiu had no reason to expect the danger from the rebels anymore, she was afraid of hard questions.
Soon her son made her worries come true.

"Mom! What have they told about daddy?" asked Kuohan.

“Not now, son! I... we must hurry to work. Soon they will expect us in the mine.”

“But what did those rebels have in common the dad?”

“I told you, Kuohan. Not now!” said Ailiu with a raised voice.

Kuohan understood he should not ask about dad. He never saw him, but mother said he had worked in a mine. She never mentioned about any rebels. Ailiu already knew she would have to tell him the truth. But how to tell the boy that his father chose to abandon his family to join the mutineers? It would make Kuohan feel rejected. Shi Kuotou made a choice. He preferred what he called freedom than heavy work in lunar mines. In the name of that freedom he abandoned his pregnant wife. Ailiu knew she would never forgive him, even after he died in one of those raids to steal food or air. Which words should Ailiu use to tell this to Kuohan? None were good.

Slowly the couple was approaching the mine. The afternoon shift was about to start soon. Kuohan as a child had to work only for four hours and later could go to a playground. Moreover, he didn't have to work with a pickaxe like his mother. His job was loading the ore rocks to the carts. Carrying stones didn’t require as much physical strength as on Earth. Kids could handle. And children labor was in their Chinese ancestors' style.

Kuo -expand, enlarge, stretch
huan - shining, brilliant, lustrous © May 2013, Krzysztof Drzazga
