The Fourth World (3): Flag
They were young and happy. They were in love. Laughing and jumping, they were crossing a valley with large leaps. Each took them further from the Colony. Toward the wasteland, towards the freedom. They had each other and the rest didn't matter. Besides, everything else was sad and gray. Just like the dust under their feet. Just like their land, the Moon.

They knew they would have to return to the Colony, anyway.

But not now. Airpacks on our backs are still full, thought Kuohan. Via a transceiver in his helmet he heard his beloved one laughing.

"You are beautiful and I love you!", he shouted.

Mei-Li laughed even louder. She took several quick leaps to reach the boy and pushed him to the ground. Then she laid beside him.

"You crazy girl!", he laughed, "if my helmet hit any of these stones on the ground, it would broke and I'd die"

"Then I would take off mine and kiss you for good-bye!"

"For good-bye?"

"That's right! Such a romantic death in your arms", she winked several times coquettishly and looked deeply in Kuohan's eyes.

Her lips touched the glass of the helmet. Kuohan did the same and touched her helmet with his. Two layers of reinforced lead glass couldn't stop the emotions. The couple joined in a hug. It was clumsy, but very romantic.

Mei-Li interrupted the moment of tenderness. Her eyes looked around Kuohan's face and she smiled. The boy answered with a smirk. They found each other very attractive. None of them had any teeth. It was normal among the Moon society.

The couple stood up and looked around.

"I can recognize this area", started Me-Li, "the flag is somewhere there", she pointed a rock in the far edge of the valley.

"Flag?", asked Kuohan.

"Follow me!"

They reached the banner in a quarter.

"Never been here...", said Kuohan looking at the flag. It was all white with several dusty marks. The fabric was worn out, with numerous tiny holes. Next to the flag stood a small post with a plate. Kuohan approached it and read several Canton Chinese characters.

"The landing site of Apollo 11. On Xin-Wen 7, 4667, the Year of Rooster Neil Armstrong put here an American flag. Stars and stripes turned white as the symbol of surrender and the victory of PRC over America. The East beat the West and now the Moon belongs to the people of China."

He turned to Mei-Li.

"So the American flag turned white to surrender? I don't understand..."

The girl laughed.

"No, silly! That's the propaganda. In fact the cosmic radiation made it dye. That's why it's all white now. But I can deal with this."

She put her left hand into a pocket and took something small. Kuohan recognized a lipstick.

"Wow! It must have cost you a fortune..."

"Just watch this. I hope the old fabric would not tear to pieces."

She held the edge of the flag carefully with her right hand and drew a big red heart. Inside she wrote characters meaning their names.

"Well... I guess it's against the regulations to vandalize the monument of past.", said Kuohan, but Mei-Li didn't listen to him.

She put the lipstick to her pocket, and took a step back to evaluate her drawing. She nodded with aprobate.

"Now, I announce the Moon belongs to lovers!" she said, her words sounding solemnly. Just then she burst with laughing.

After a short while Kuohan joined her laugh.

"Silly girl! I love you so much!"

Mei-Li turned her head to the boy and extended the right hand. Kuohan grabbed it immediately, his laugh turned to a smile.

"I love you too!", she whispered to the transceiver.

"Shall we go?"

"Where?"

"Around."

Roaming and walking, they spent wonderful time. Love allowed them to forget the everyday routine and problems. The Moon was grey and cold, but they had each other ... and the cancer. Spacesuits were not a perfect protection against cosmic emission, not for years, and the Sun that gives light and warmth for Earth is in fact a huge thermonuclear bomb. Its explosion lasts for millenias. Contrary to the Earth, Moon doesn't have magnetic field to stop the radiation...

-----------------------------------    ---------------------

BTW. Have you ever wondered how the American flag on the Moon looks like now?
Xin-Wen 7, 4667, the Year of Rooster is July, the 20th, 1969 according to Chinese calendar © Feb 2016, Krzysztof Drzazga 
