Daddy's daughter
A black car stopped in front of a house. A little girl opened the door of the car, quickly ran towards the house, and opened the door. Margarete was waiting two meters behind the threshold.

“Sweetheart, you should have been home an hour ago. I’ll talk to daddy. I think I won’t let you go out for so long.”

“But Mutti. I was with daddy all the time. I was looking at the herbarium and wonderful paintings made by prisoners!”

“Go to the kitchen and eat your dessert, Guddie!” said Margarete. “I must go to the chickencoop.”

Even though her husband had recently made a great political career, so that he even was considered a second person in the country, Margo didn’t give up breeding the chickens. Although they had servants in their house, and it would be no problem to have them also in a farm, Margarete preferred to take care of chickens by herself. She had already had achievements is genetic crossing different breeds of chickens.

While she was pouring corn into the trough, Frauke, her neighbor, approached the fence and greeted her. Frauke seldom visited her during her work with chickens as she didn't find the smell of animals nice so Margo suspected that someting had happened.SHe interrupted and they started chatting.

“Your husband is a really great man” said the neighbor.

Margarete nodded her head and smiled.

“How is it like to be a wife of a man with such important mission for Germany?”

“He doesn’t have much free time, as his office requires that often he has to be outside home, but he loves our Gudrun very much.”

The talk seemed finished for Margarete, but it looked like Frauke wasn’t going to leave…

“Do you have some business for me?”

“Yes. I am sorry to bother you Margo, but could you borrow me some money? My Heidi is ill and I need to call for a doctor.”

“Naturally. Go to my house and knock the door. The servant will call the doctor.”

“Thank you so much! You and Your husband are true angels for us! You always have compassion towards common people.”

Frauke had tears in her eyes saying these words. She approached the door of Margo’s house.

Margarete returned to chickens, thinking about her neighbor’s words. Frauke didn’t know that deep in her heart was a wound, a great flaw in their marriage, she didn’t tell anyone about. When they used to live in Berlin, she heard that her husband had an affair which probably resulted with two children, he had with another woman. He often was outside home so an affair was possible. However Margarete didn’t believe gossips, she didn’t want to believe…

He arrived late afternoon. Gudrun welcomed his daddy. Though she hadn’t seen him for less than three hours, she missed very much. Again they were talking about prisoners’ works.

In the evening father laid Guddie down to sleep.

“Daddy I love you! You are wonderful! You allow these prisoners to paint so beautiful things. You are doing a really good job.”

He looked at his daughter lying in bed and looking directly in his eyes. She was smiling charmingly, and playing with her curly hair.

“Sweetheart. All I do is for You and the future of our Fatherland” said he.

Mom interrupted them, informing her husband about a telephone.

“Good night darling!”,

“Good night daddy!”

He took the speaker, talked for a minute, and hang up the phone.

“It was Weiss, the commander of Konzentrazionlager. I must return to Dachau. A huge transport of Jews is coming in half an hour. The order comes from Fuhrer himself. The car is on its way.”

Margarete nodded her head. It wasn’t the first time, that Heinrich had to leave at night.

Indeed, ten minutes later an SS officer appeared at their door and saluted.

“Herr Himmler! Your car is waiting!”

***

The car arrived at KL Dachau in half an hour, and stopped in front of the guard house. Assisted by the SS officer, Heinrich entered the site of the camp. It was quiet and pretty dark despite strong spotlights enlighting the fence. The terror of this place could only be noticed after the heavy smell from the chimney of the crematory.

Guards told him that Martin Weiss was at so called bunker which was in fact the place of executions. While Heinrich and the officer were approaching the bunker, a loud salvo of shooting disturbed the silence. Soon he saw Weiss standing together with SS boys over dead bodies of prisoners. He came to Himmler, saluted, and asked for a moment to sign the execution papers. Heinrich agreed.

Waiting for the retun of Weiss, Himmler looked at a dead body of some young girl. She was very similar to his Gudrun...
© Oct 2012, Krzysztof Drzazga 
