The assault began. Dwarves were swift, but Gwendyn was faster. Grab an arrow. Aim. Fire. Just like he was trained. His arms were moving quickly. His eye was precise. His arrows sang a wonderful whistling melody, quickly flying over heads of defenders. They found home in attackers’ bodies easily, and in a short while three dwarves collapsed. Four other short bodies joined them in death just a moment later.

Gwendyn was standing on a platform adjacent to a three-meter-high wall of thorns protecting the Sacred Oak. Neither dwarves nor any other creatures had ever been able to conquer the land of Elves. That day was no different. Their capital was undefeated.

This assault was about to finish soon too. Gwendyn’s section of fortifications was clear. Good, thought he, as his arms were tired and his breath heavy. There was still some fighting in several other places, but definitely the Elves won. Soon the enemy would be completely driven out.

Gwendyn looked at the meadow in front of the fortifications. Usually, it was covered with blossoms and beautiful flowers. He often stood on this platform just to admire their terrific scent. But not that day. All these wonderful flowers were covered with dead bodies of dwarves. Now attackers looked like pincushions. Bitter smell of death replaced the nice scent of flowers. Despite that fact, he smiled and looked at the Sacred Oak.

“Glory to the defenders!” shouted Elvish women and children gathered around the holy tree. Tyra, the lady of his heart was among them, dressed in a snow white gown and with a colorful wreath on her head. Their eyes met and Tyra smiled to her beloved.
Together with his fellow soldiers, Gwendyn saved his homeland once more…

***
“Gwnedyn! Give me that present! Come on, we need to hurry!”
Santa Claus’s voice ceased Gwendyn’s daydreaming. Indeed, that battle had been a long time ago, and now he worked for Santa.

Walking towards his boss, Gwendyn looked down at the present in his hands. It was a bow, but it was so diffrent from an Elvish one. Made of fibers, wrapped with transparent plastic, it didn't look like his former bow, but it made his memories return. Now Gwendyn was not an Elvish hero ,but Santa’s assistant. For Elves, he was a renegade, an outcast.

Gwendyn sighed. Partly, it was the old man's fault.One day Santa lost a Christmas present over the Elvish forest. It must have accidently fallen off his sledge, and Gwendyn found it among the trees.
Two days later Gwendyn was rejected by his society. He had been expelled from the Sacred Oak community for leaving a heap of garbage in the Holy Forest. Indeed, he left some candy and chocolate bar wrappers, some empty chips packages, Coca Cola empties, and some tins. All these sweets and beverages obviously came from the lost Santa’s present.

"Guilty of sacrilege!!!" Gwendyn recalled words of the Elvish court he heard years ago. They had often echoed in his brain from that day, when he was ordered to leave the Sacred Oak. Tyra didn't want to know him anymore. Even his parents turned away. Sorrow embraced his heart. Was it fair to expel a hero who defended the Elvish capital only for leaving some garbage, he asked himself once more.

Fortunately, Santa felt somehow partially responsible for Gwendyn’s situation, and offered him a job. Gwendyn found it pretty light, only at the end of each year there was a lot of work and also some night shifts.

The Christmas was close at hand, so Santa had to hurry together with his workers.
Gwendyn looked at the weapon in his hands once more.

“A wonderful composite bow,” thought he. “It is not made of wood, but of plastic fibres which are stronger and more elastic. And it also has pulleys which make pulling the bowstring much easier. If only I had such a bow during my service in the Sacred Oak community…”

He approached Santa.

“May I just have one more look at the weapon, boss?” asked he.

The white-bearded was not satisfied, but he agreed, even though there was really a lot of work before Christmas. After all, Santa was a very good employer. He had to be. Otherwise the trade unions could make him some trouble, and for Santa Claus his reputation was the most important thing.

Gwendyn was looking at the pulley bow for another minute.

“It’s a fantastic weapon boss,” he told to Santa.”But our Elvish bows are different. They are magic, and each one of them has magic runes written in different parts of the bow… Wait a moment, what’s that?”

Indeed there were also some runes on this bow. Gwendyn took a magnifying glass to read it. The letters were not very small, but Gwendyn still had problems with human language.
“M… Made in China” read he. “Wow, boss. The magic emanating from these amazing runes is almost tangible!”

Santa didn’t have time to explain Gwendyn his mistake and smiled. "Gwendyn, Christmas is the time of magic, but now we need to rush!"

The elf had to finish the celebration of the wonderful weapon. He handed it to Santa and quickly ran to bring another present. Time was short. They had to hurry with Christmas preparations. During the Christmas Eve they were supposed to travel around the whole world…