The Escort
He entered the room and shyly said “Hello”. Forty to forty five years old, bald, thin, no taller than 5’6″.
Rookie, thought Sarah and approached him with a fake smile.

Quickly, she took his hand and pointed at a sofa with her finger. He was sitting on it a few seconds later. Sarah kissed him and put her right hand on his crotch. All the following events occurred quickly; unzipping his fly, pulling her skirt up, removing panties, slipping on the condom, and the sexual contact. He moved his hand under her blouse, took it off, and touched her bra on her back to unhook it.

He didn’t make it. The moment of ecstasy totally surprised him, which Sarah noticed expertly.
One, two, three she counted in her mind and definitely made it over.

She stood up, put on her blouse, straighten her clothes, and took a cigarette from her purse.

“Got a lighter?”

“N…No.” She heard the response she expected. Having changed the subject from sex to cigarette, she let her client know it was over.

For a minute she was pretending that she was looking for a lighter in her purse and finally took it in her hand.

The guy was a non smoker, but even the bitter smell of the cigarette couldn’t brake his astonishment. Those few seconds of orgasm seemed to be a faraway past for him.

“Seventy five bucks, as we agreed.” she released the words with a smoke.

The guy was still sitting on a sofa with his pants down.

Sarah approached the corridor door and opened it. Hoarse voice of Barbara, a fifty five year old owner of the brothel was heard in the room loud and clear. She was giving some orders to Mike, a cadet. She didn't say anything connected with removing anyone with force. Yet, violating Sarah customer’s privacy made him recover from the shock.

He dressed and took his wallet.

“How much?”

Sarah smiled, came near him, and took the wallet from his hand. A minute later he got it back, without seventy five dollars inside.

“Thank you!” she said leaving the room.

Her regular customers could count for more, but Sarah didn’t find this one a candidate for a regular. Now she was thirty and after seven years in the business she was experienced.

Stan, a fifty year old welder, was her regular customer. He came after every bigger welding order he got. Even though he was Sarah’s regular, he didn’t get much more sex. Actually, for Stanley it was only an additional feature. He had a great need to talk.

“I’m telling you Mandy that unlike you my wife is a real b**ch.”

Stan just loved the sound of her fake name and had no idea it wasn’t real. Sarah-Mandy knew a lot about his family. Yet, it was only Stan's version. She found it unbelievable, which confirmed her opinion that all men were liars and scum.

“Lisa became extremely ugly and fat after she had delivered my second son, Mario.” Stanley continued his yelling. “I was often outside home. I welded to earn money for my family. While I was working hard, she wasn’t doing anything but watching television and eating. For almost three years she was unemployed and stayed at home with the kids.”

She looked at the photo he handed her. Lisa had short dark hair and was at least seventy pounds overweight. Under the thin layer of her make up Sarah-Mandy saw the sad eyes of a tired woman, swollen just as if she was crying short time before making the picture. Sarah found Lisa’s clothes ragged, but was sure that for Stanley they seemed just normal. For a minute she was imagining how she would dress Lisa for the money Stan paid her for two meetings.

Sarah saw even more on this photo. Watching Lisa she remembered her mother. Father was an alcoholic and didn’t care about his family. Her mom had to provide everything and protect her daughter from home violence, which in most cases was impossible. She had never time to take care of her appearance.

All men are scum, thought Sarah and gave a fake smile to Stanley.

“I’m sorry to say it, Stan, but recently all prices are going up. I’m afraid you’ll have to pay fifteen bucks more for a meeting.”

Stan sighed heavily.

“You’re breaking my heart, darling. But… so be it. However, now I want my ‘dessert’”

He put his right hand on her lap and his left came to her breast. That time Stan was a wild animal.

***

“Hi! I’m James.”
“Debbie”
“Nice to meet you. You often go to this disco?”

James was 6’1″, short, blonde hair, well built. He was a kind of Sarah-Debbie’s type.

The talk was nice. James bought her a drink and they went for a walk together. He offered a date two days later. Then another and another. Sarah-Debbie and James became a couple.

James, age twenty three, was seven years younger than Sarah, a student of Electronics, young and a bit naive.

I like him, thought Sarah during some romantic dinner in a pleasant restaurant. He’s nice and not that boring like Stan. Young, silly kid.

The place they had the dinner in was cheap. One a student could afford. Sarah offered she could pay for a meal in a better restaurant, but James didn’t accept it.

He noticed her pensive face.

“What are you thinking about, Deborah?”

“I like you.” answered she.

“Just like? How about ‘I love you’?”

Sarah chuckled.

“All right. I love you.” she said without any emotion.

“It’s not what I wanted. Will you let me walk you home tonight or still not?”

“Still not.”

“Oh! Come on, Debbie! It’s childish.”

Sarah shook her shoulders and smiled.

“No! Do not press it!”

He followed her order. However, every next meeting he asked for the same. Every time he was refused.

After five dates Sarah was fed up with his insisting and realized it had gone too far.

“Why not, Debbie? I don’t understand it.”

“Coz I’m a hooker, kid! Ciao!”

She smiled and left the restaurant.

She forget about James quickly enough. She couldn’t get involved in a relationship due to her occupation and broke up with the kid before he could reject her.

***

An old mansion was adjacent to the land where Sarah’s brothel was located. The building was at least a hundred years old. It had been dwelt in by a nice couple. The house was not much older than them. Sarah remembered two significant days when an ambulance took the old lady first, and her husband a week later. They never returned. After a month a young couple with a small girl moved in. Sarah deduced they must have inherited the house.

I have never seen them visiting the old couple. Neither did I see home brokers nor anyone after their death so these guys must have been some far relatives, thought Sarah.

Indeed, they were. Mr. and Mrs. Kowalski, the old couple, were childless and Sarah found out that Matt Novak was Mrs. Kowalski’s nephew. However, unlike his aunt he didn’t look friendly.

Well, it can be my prejudice, thought Sarah. I find all the men scum. Nevertheless, I’m right in most cases.

Sarah could hardly see Matt’s wife and didn’t know her name. But their daughter was wonderful.

“Hello! I am Maggie and I’m already big. Tomorrow is my eighth birthday” heard Sarah behind a fence when she was returning “home” from shopping.

A lovely, dark blonde girl with amazing big blue eyes was looking at her through a hole in an old wooden fence. If there was no hole, Sarah wouldn’t see Maggie as the fence was taller than the girl.

As she saw the little cute girl growing to a respectable, in her opinion, age, Sarah felt incredibly warm emotions towards the adorable little thing

“Nice to meet you Maggie. I am… “. She hesitated for a moment. “My name is Sarah. Happy birthday!”

She approached the fence and pulled her hand towards Maggie. The girl shook it.

“I am building a shelter for my dolls. Wanna see it?”

“Sure.”

Sarah looked over the fence. Several sticks formed a kind of a pyramid. Ragged legs of a puppet stuck out of it.

“Shelter is kinda small.” explained Maggie. “Need to make it bigger.”

Sarah chuckled.
“Indeed. Only one puppet can fit inside.”

“This is daddy. There’s no room for mommy yet.”

Maggie pointed at another puppet lying in a grass.

“So maybe daddy would be a gentleman and let mommy in. Huh?” proposed Sarah.

“No! No room for her.”

At the same time Barbara opened a window and told Sarah to come back.

“Gotta go, Maggie. See you soon.”

“Bye Sarah.”

*****

Sarah was fascinated with her young friend. In her world of humiliation and faker appeared a person who didn’t mind to judge her anyway.

“Hi Maggie!”

“Hi Sarah!”

“Brought you some candies.”

The girl took a small bag with sweets over the fence.

“These are good, but I prefer caramel ones.” said Maggie and took one candy. “Yummy, thanks.”

“You are welcome. I’ll have caramel candies tomorrow.”

Maggie nodded her head, still munching sweets.

“And where is the shelter for your puppets?” asked Sarah watching the grass.

“Today don’t play with shelter. Waiting for the bird.”

“Which bird?”

Maggie pointed her small finger at the upper part of a tree.

“I see. The bird box. Mr. Kowalski must have mounted it years ago, but I have never noticed it before. Was he your grandpa?”

Maggie didn’t know. She knew only her grandma from mother’s side.

“You’ve got a big garden, but since Mrs. Kowalski died no one has taken care of it.”

Sarah looked at her mobile.

“Gotta go. I’ll be here tomorrow, bring you caramel candies and try to buy some flowers to plant. OK?”

“I like daffodils.”

“OK. Daffodils. See you.”

“Bye, Sarah.”

Unfortunately, the next day Sarah had five customers including Stan and one order for striptease at a stag-party. However, she managed to buy two small pots with daffodils on her way to a future groom’s place.
She had no occasion to inform Maggie that she couldn’t meet with her.

The next day Sarah dressed a gym suit for working in a garden, and came to Maggie as soon as the girl appeared in the garden. Young Maggie was, however, upset.

“You didn’t come yesterday, Sarah. Too bad!”

“I’m very sorry sweetie, but I had lotsa work.”

Maggie was thinking for a moment.

“OK. This time I forgive you, but don’t do it again.”

“I won’t. Promise. Do you have a shovel?”

“I asked daddy yesterday, but he was angry and didn’t tell me.”

“Don’t worry. We’re gonna find it. It should probably be in that shed.” Sarah pointed at an old wooden building partially hidden behind big bushes.

“I’m walking over the fence to you. OK?”

“Sure, Sarah.”

She jumped over the fence and together with Maggie they approached the shed.

A rusty padlock seemed to be a great obstacle, but only for a moment. It was mounted on a half rotten wooden plank. Sarah pulled it, and the nails keeping the lock at the plank easily left it.

Having the door opened, the girls felt a moist, old odor from the shed. A small bat, startled with unexpected dusk, flew out of it.

Maggie squeaked and hugged Sarah.

“Don’t worry!” said she.

A spade, a watering can, and a rake were easily found among the spider webs.

“Let’s get to work now.” said Sarah and they returned to the fence.

“Look Sarah” the girl pointed her finger at the bird box.

Three little birds were tweeting silently as the bigger one, their mother, held an earthworm in its beak right before them.

Sarah smiled and Maggie answered with her smile. For a couple minutes they were celebrating the moment of bird’s lunch and returned to digging

After ten minutes a rectangular area of two for six feet was dug up and Maggie started raking.

“Be careful with this rake.” chuckled Sarah watching her little friend trying to operate with a garden rake, taller from her. She found her clumsy moves incredibly adorable.

“Now it’s time to plant the flowers.”

As Sarah leaned to pick up pots from the ground, she noticed a man approaching from Maggie’s house. She looked towards him and recognized Matt, Maggie’s father.

“Who are you? Stay outta my child.”

“It’s OK, daddy. Don’t be angry!”

“You shut up, stupid kid. And you…” he pointed Sarah. “Get the f**k outta here or I’m callin’ cops.”

“Stop shouting at the girl, you moron!” Sarah protested and didn’t mind to obey the offensive order.

“What? You … Wait a minute! I can recognize you. Get f**k off you b**tch. I’m calling the cops right now.”

Sarah understood she would win nothing.

“Bye Maggie. Take care! I’ll be all right.”

I hope so, she thought leaving the property.

*****

In the next few days Sarah realized that Maggie was grounded and had no chance to meet with her.

She had no other choice than to return to her “normal” professional activities. Yet, she couldn’t forget about Maggie and was worried with the fact her father was a rude and loathsome man.

One evening she heard the noise of a big wrangle. She was with Stanley that time, so she ordered him to go home. He didn’t like it, but Sarah managed to persuade him. She couldn’t sleep all night, worried about the girl.

The next day in Novak’s house it was quiet, but after two days another row happened. Swearing and noises were heard even in the brothel, a neighboring building.

What a horror must be happening there? Thought Sarah.

Unfortunately, it seemed that from that time wrangles were supposed to occur almost regular with three or four days interval.

*****

“I want to report home violence.” Sarah said to the officer at the nearest police station.

Sitting at his desk he was looking at her ID and at her face. Suddenly, he stood up and approached a cabinet. He opened a drawer and took some file.

“Sarah Petersen. We have your record here. Prostitute, call girl, and a strip teaser. You’ve said you wanted what?”

“Report home violence in the neighborhood.”

“I see. In the neighborhood of your brothel there is home violence. Well, well. Interesting. And the place where you live and ‘work’ is lawful and pure.”

“Beg you pardon?”

“As a hooker, you aren’t very reliable, girl!”

Sarah got mad at his cruel words, but managed to sober and get self-possessed.

“I am reporting that Maggie Novak, daughter of Matt Novak is often beaten by her father.” she said angrily. “His wife probably suffers from home violence, too. Get your keyboard and write my testimony. If you don’t, I’ll go to your superior and say you refused to accept a crime report.”

She was looking directly in the officer’s eyes. The policeman hesitated for a moment, chewing his mouth. He nodded his head twice and took the keyboard.

“Name, last name, address….”

****

Sarah expected the police to arrive soon. The officer didn’t want to tell her when they would come, but she managed to persuade him to tell her “Friday, before the noon”. Unfortunately, Stan called on her mobile. She had to answer. Too much did she set him at naught recently and Barbara even rebuked her for “unprofessional behavior”. Stan seemed to be more horny than usual.
“I think I don’t have time now. Sorry!” answered Sarah.

“No way, Mandy! I’m right on my way.”

She was standing on a brothel’s balcony smoking a cigarette and watching the neighbor’s house. After twenty minutes she noticed police van approaching the property. It stopped in front of the gate.

“Sarah… I mean Mandy. Stan has arrived and is waiting to meet you.” she heard Barbara’s voice behind her back.

“Tell him to f**k off!” shouted Sarah.

“Mandy… That’s unprofessional. Should I remind you our agreement?”

“Sorry, wait a minute!”

Police officers already got into the neighbor’s house.

Stanley also ran into Sarah’s room.

“Mandy! That’s unfair! I’m a regular customer and customer and demand respect. Don’t you treat me like my wife does.”

The last statement was told with a great irritation.

Sarah didn’t pay attention at him at all. Finally, after several minutes if Stan’s complaining she saw what she wanted. The police left the house with Maggie’s father handcuffed. Sarah smiled.

“Mandy!” Stan had tears in his eyes.

She turned her head towards him and said:

“Shut the f**k up and strip!”

For a second Stanley was analyzing her words and then smiled.

“Nasty girl! You did it on purpose. You like teasing me.”

Sarah approached him. Never did Stan realize how pathetic he was in her eyes….

© Mar 2013, Krzysztof Drzazga
