Father
That day changed all his life. "Mikey, Mikey, don't be so nervous, or some day you're gonna be in trouble," used to say his mom. He remembered her words, when the police cuffed his wrists and took to the car. On the other hand old Donna did little to prevent her son from problems with law. Probably she couldn't do more. Their family was dysfunctional. When Mike's father had been alive, he drank and beat his son. Donna did only the latter, herself being a victim of Peter the drunker. Years later, when Mike had his wife and child, he was no better than his father. His wife and daughter also suffered from home violence. Like Donna used to say, Mike went mad quite easily. And that one evening it was Tom, his neighbor who drove him crazy. The music he was listening was too loud for Mike. The only thing Mike did not predict was that, unlike the girls in his family, Tom didn't mind to escape. He faced Mike, who accidentally broke his neck during the fight. The sentence was twenty five years for a crime of rage.

In a prison time was passing slowly.

Unlike movies show, rapes happen seldom in a jail. Soon after getting to the prison, he had an occasion to leave it for a moment. Mary, his wife, wanted to divorce. She would have never dared to do this when Mike had been free, but in that new situation she had managed to make the decision. The trial was quick and in the court she didn't look in his eyes even once

In the tenth year of Mike's stay behind the bars he accepted Jesus Christ as his Lord and the personal savior. In the environment he came from he had no chance to do it. For his parents vodka was the god. However, the jail preacher and few newborn fellow prisoners somehow convinced him. Feeling of his personal defeat also influenced his decision. He wanted to change. He never was bad to the bone anymore had no reason to be proud of anything. Besides, in the boring environment bounded by thick walls of the jail the faith seemed to be a chance for him. Colleagues from the Christian group encouraged him to stay on the path of the righteousness. Nevertheless, their achievements in following the Christ were different. Not everyone was able to break with old habits.

“People leaving a jail got great problems with emotions, can't control anger.” told him Bruce, a recidivist, who had come to the Lord a year before his release. He got lost after regaining his freedom, solved one problem in a violent way, and was sentenced again.  “Maybe it's good I have returned to the prison. I have time to grow up and think over my whole life again in peace.”

“When a human being stays enclosed for more than about ten years, a complex, irreversible process starts in his brain. A prison gradually becomes his home.“ stated one psychological theory. “Homo prisonerus” seemed a funny term, but for many sentenced people is was terrifying. Mike knew he was on the border.

Did Bruce cross it? he was wondering. The faith can move mountains, so maybe his faith was insufficient to face the freedom.

Nevertheless, he kept praying. As ten years of his penalty had passed, he could write a petition for anticipation of release. The did, but was also aware of the fact that the first petition is always refused.
“They want to check if you don't change your good behavior after the refuse.” told him his tutor. “If you don't, you can write another application after two years, and in most cases it is accepted. I know it is strange, but it is one of the unwritten laws of our justice system. Actually, you need to make the first attempt to have an opportunity to make another one after two years.”

Mike signed necessary documents and they were sent to the court. A response arrived in several days. His trial was to be performed in two weeks. Then he looked at the judge's name and groaned. It was the same guy who had sent him to prison.

“With this sentence, I am releasing the society from you.” had been this judge's words ten years before. Indeed, Mike had not showed any repentance or remorse during the trial, as he simply had found it unfair. Moreover, he had even laughed at the judge and offended him several times during the trial.

Ain't no good. He never lemme out, thought he, but carried on praying.

Two weeks later he was free. It was, however, a parole.

A hundred-ninety-centimeter-tall, well-built, bald guy crossed a  gate of the prison. His faded jeans and a red-black shirt having even less intensive colors after ten years spent in a prison deposit looked pretty strange. Mike couldn't fasten the shirt buttons as years spent in a prison gym significantly enlarged his muscles.

He decided to find his family and tell them about the miracle he had already experienced, but it was not easy. Mary, his former wife, was dead.

“Raped and killed by a drug dealer if you need to know.” he heard from Cathy, her best friend, through the close door of her flat. She had no reason to let him in.

Cathy didn't know where Mandy, his daughter, could be or didn't want to tell him.

So the miracles seem to be over for now. Did the Heavenly Father  give me only a single sign to strengthen my faith and wants me to trust him now?  thought Mike and wept after his wife, probably for the first time ever.

The flat he used to own had been sold in the result of the divorce case. His part of money was deposited in the bank and now he could access it. However, he preferred to live in a small flat assigned to him by the authorities than to hire something.  After ten years spent in one room with three other fellows, the flat seemed huge. Every guy on a parole gets such a flat for a year. Mike had to report the nearest police station twice a week to fulfill the conditions of the parole. He also joined the local Baptist Church.

People in the community reacted in different ways for a converted criminal. Many Christians were touched with his testimony. However, some people were annoyed with him taking part in their small praying groups. His wide chest, poor clothes, and bald head still made him look like a prisoner. Besides, Mike didn't smell nice. Only cold water had been available in his prison cell, so he had been used to taking a shower not often than once a week. He even didn't think about changing this habit after leaving the jail.

****

Accidentally, he saw her walking in the park with a baby one autumn day. But for a newborn Christian there were no accidents, but God's doing. The Almighty somehow made his daughter to go for a walk at the same time when Mike was crossing the park. Seeing her was a nice contrast to the chilly weather. He wanted to approach and talk, but couldn't make it.

Works as a baby-sitter. That's kinda good, thought he.

He was touched and a salty drop ran down his cheek. Unpleasant feeling of cold on the wet fragment of his face could not suppress the great internal emotions within his heart. Yet he still couldn't dare to approach his daughter.

What could I tell her? he asked himself.

For fifteen minutes he had been celebrating the moment, before his daughter left the park. Mike also got back to his flat.

Guided by the examples from the Bible he was praying and feasting.

“Lord, gimme right words! Put 'em in my mouth when I'll dish out to her.” he shouted to God and tears were falling down on his bed.

It seemed that Mandy came to the park on regular basis and one day Mike just came to her. He wasn't afraid of rejection as he put all his trust in the Lord.

Driven by some inner voice he opened his mouth. Mandy was shocked with words spoken with a speed of a machine gun, as she initially didn't recognize her father. He was speaking about his mistakes, many times repeating he was sorry, and about how he had met Jesus. Soon she put two and two together and knew it was him.
When Mike finished his speech, she was looking at him, utterly amazed. Mike noticed she didn't know what to say, and suddenly remembered one advice of his pastor. “Do not press. Say what you have to tell her, and let the Holy Spirit work in her heart.”

“God bless ya my child! I'm sorry again for all I done to you and ma. Gotta go!” he told her and left. Only when he walked several meters from the site of the meeting, the cold blow made him realize that all the time the tears of strong emotions were running from his both eyes.

He believed that the Holy Spirit gave him pastor's words at the right time. George was a good shepherd of his local church. Mike found him a wise man and accepted his authority, though George was almost twenty years younger from him, and Mike might have been his father.

Mandy stopped going to the park. Mike, however, visited it every day, hoping his daughter would come. She never did.

He found out that she was not working as a baby-sitter, but he was the grandfather of the baby she was coming with. That made him want to meet her even more. But he still could not find her.

Guys from the church found him a job. Jake, one of them was semi-retired and  had a grocery at a marketplace. He needed a driver for a part-time job to transport food from a wholesale. Fortunately, Mike had a driving license.

During one visit to the wholesale warehouse he met three gypsies around the corner of the building.

“Came to buy goods for your store, uh?” asked dark-skin guy with a grin. The evil smile was pretty broad, but could not match the broadness of his arms and neck, really impressing. “Just leave your wallet and f**k out of here!”

“Ain't want any problems dude, but not gonna leave the wallet. Not my money.”

Mike made a step back, but soon had to block three punches of a gypsy on the left of the one who threatened him.

“Whoa! Whoa!” shouted Mike. “As I told ya, don't wanna troubles!”

The gypsies seemed to be impressed with the way he dealt with the attack, and for a moment they ceased another attempt.

The stalemate was interrupted by a guard, who appeared in a distance of approximately hundred meters from the site of the ambush. Having seen him dialing  his mobile, the gypsies escaped.

*****

Jake was utterly amazed.

“Sorry, but I just cannot get it.” said he, unusually hysterically. “I had drove to that warehouse a hundred thousand times for more than twelve years and nothing like that had ever happened. But, on the other hand, it seems that the Lord is protecting you.”

Mike smiled.

“Ya, indeed!”

“Anyway, you have to watch out. Do not overuse God's protection. Please, don't get me wrong or offensive, but I suppose that these gypsies somehow felt you are from 'their world' and I don't know if it was something like a magnetic attraction...”

“Could be...”

“I think you can overcome every problem. Just stay close to the Lord.”

“That's what I'm gonna do.” smiled Mike.

His life changed, and he found his place in the society. Work at Jake's grocery wasn't very profitable, but his payment was sufficient to live.

*****
One day Mike suddenly arrived at pastor's office. Usually he came to the church not often than twice a week.

"Hello Mike! Nice to meet you." George welcomed him, a bit surprised with an unexpected visit.

"Hi! Sorry to botha, but can ya borro' me some green?" said Mike with uncertain voice.

"Money? Sure, why not." George smiled. "Salary at Jake's store is not enough, uh? Or maybe you want to buy some present for your grandson? Wait... where's my wallet?"

"No, ain't no problem with salary..."

"So?"

Mike sighted and stood silent for a minute. George ceased searching his wallet and looked at Mike.

"Last week ain't no good. I was really down. Man!. I ... called for a hooker."

Reverend George's first thought was how it was possible that Mike broke the process of repairing  his life in such a silly way, and his anger arose. Mike could notice that after pastor's face, but a second later George realized that a rebuke is not what Mike needed at the moment, so he spoke with a calm voice:

"We all make mistakes and fall. The Lord can see your repentance. Come near me."

They prayed and George lent him the money.

*****

Three years later he returned to prison, but … as a missionary.

“God has changed my life. He can touch also your hearts.” he spoke his testimony on numerous meetings with prisoners. “I used to beat and humiliate ma family. I did that, cos no one had ever loved me. Change when experienced love from above. I ganked a man and was a home tyrant, but God forgave me...”

But his daughter didn't mind to. He met her several times, but wounds in her soul were to strong to heal over the time and due to Mike's efforts.
Mike died at the age of sixty two and the Heavenly Father welcomed his prodigal son.

People from the church buried him. Mandy came to the funeral with her teen son. Her husband didn't come. George, the pastor of Baptist church who knew Mike very well, was conducting the funeral.

He welcomed Mandy with a smile and wondered why she wore sunglasses.

“I am very glad you have come. Your father is now looking at us from Heaven and is very happy.”
She nodded he head, but a second later she turned her face right. Anyway, the pastor noticed what she wanted to hide. A tear run down her cheek.

“It's OK.” said pastor and made a step back.

Mandy took a handkerchief and touched her cheek. Then she wanted  to wipe the tears, so she slightly lifted her sunglasses for a short while. However this moment was enough for the pastor to notice one more thing.
She had a black eye!, thought he.
A deep sigh was all he could do considering the circumstances of the funeral.
So her husband beats her too, he wondered, Lord! Save her! Home violence was transferred from her father to her husband.

All that pastor George could do in such case was approaching her once more after the funeral and giving his phone number.

"You can call me in case you need." said he.

She took the card with the number.

We can easily find testimonies on of newborn Christians on the internet. Most of them follow the scheme: my life was pitiful, I've met Jesus, and now it's OK though not perfect.
These testimonies were often written by really fresh Christ followers, full of enthusiasm. The influence of the faith on people's life is often crucial, as it can meet the most basic human needs, including the needs of love and acceptance.
Nevertheless, not everything can be fixed, especially in case of strongly dysfunctional families. These testimonies are often written by fresh newborn Christ followers, so naturally they do not mention about it. No one cannot turn back time, and people who changed their lives still have suffer some consequences of sins from the past...
Except for the thread with Mike's daughter, all the events and other threads are true. However, they happened to different guys who chose Christianity as a way to deal with their criminal past. I have focused them on  fictitious Mike and a little on Bruce. © Feb 2013, Krzysztof Drzazga
