Lake
Manfred said prayers. As usual they were addressed to the Holy Lady. Who else than the Virgin Mary, his order took the name from, could help him? He was a northern crusader, a Teutonic Knight. His cape was white and as clean the Holy Virgin. It was decorated with black cross. Dark as souls of pagans from this cursed, wet country, thought he.
He wanted to bring the light of faith to this unholy land. And the only way was to do it with a sword - just like the Great Master has said, he thought, recalling the picture of Konrad von Erlichshausen with dark, bushy beard, wrinkled thin face and formidable eyebrows.

The moon was full, but dense trees he browsed among didn’t let much light through. His sabatons were walking in shallow mud, his armor creaking each step. It was getting dark and wind howled among trees. Once more he cursed Lithuania and asked Mary for protection. His henchman Otto stayed in a camp, together with his ‘Kammeraden’ - a pack of Manfred’s crossbowmen who always accompanied him in a battle. Why didn’t he order them to patrol the Sviciaz' Lake – now he couldn’t understand his own decision of walking alone.

It was early spring. Snow had already melted, but nights were cold. He felt his heavy armor was chilly. Small fire burned in a distance, then another. Manfred started to whisper the litany to Virgin Mary, even though fires quickly vanished and he knew they were nothing else than jack-o’-laterns, so common in swampy area. Soon he reached a meadow. It was clearly visible in the moonlight. A small burned cottage stood in the middle. He unsheathed his sword and slowly approached the ruins. Here the ground was dry. As he was approximately ten paces from his goal the smell of burned wood was replaced with another odor, even less pleasant.

Dead corpses, flashed in his mind.

Several steps left confirmed his suspicions. Two bodies hung on a thick branch of a low tree, he couldn’t have seen before, as it was covered with burned hut. Then he looked at ruins.

It’s not a cottage, but a devastated Christian chapel, he realized and made a gesture of the cross on his chest. Metal glove clinged on a fine cuirass. He kneeled and asked God to forgive the sacriledge to whoever had done it, and promised to find the responsible pagans and punish them with all the cruelty. Tears went down Manfred’s cheeks. His threats, spoken in German language sounded quite scary. For the glory of Jesus Christ and the Teutonic Order, this sin will be avenged, he shouted. Then he understood that maybe it’s already been done. Manfred stood up and examined the corpses.

The Order doesn’t execute pagans this way, flashed in his mind and he understood they had to be judged by some locals.

Impossible! This nation only pretends to be Christian. Bible says about wolves in sheep clothing. Lithuania worships pagan gods!

He looked around and decided to continue his walk towards the lake. He spoke the litany to Virgin Mary in his mind again, but one thing distracted his prayer. He knew his squad went very far inside the territory on Lithuania. Who could build a wooden chapel here, and then judge and execute the arsonists? How was that possible?

Another prayer brought him the answer. They had to be God’s angels. Jesus sent them to build the chapel and then to punish pagans. Exactly. Manfred himself also was a kind of angel, sent deep into Lithuania to convert pagans with steel and fire.
He recalled the night before, when his squad attacked a small village. Women were screaming, when Teutonic Knights and their servants closed their children in a primitive barn and burnt it all down. How shallow was their understanding. There was not a single man in the village, so it was obvious that they had children with demons. Small, unbaptized kids, children of Satan – only fire could purge them. Stupid women didn’t understand the act of mercy. They had to die soon after. One of them had told Manfred about the Sviciaz' Lake. He was walking according to her directions. He hoped he had understood her pagan language correctly.

Again, he dived among dense trees and stepped onto muddy ground. Several wolves howled to the full moon. Fallen dry benches creaked under his feet, those already rotten only bended. Nothing disturbed his walk and soon he noticed the forest ended.

Sviciaz', he whispered to himself.

The lake was huge. Unvoluntarily, Manfred felt some kind of respect towards it. The full moon casted a majestic reflection on dark surface.
Pagans live close to nature, in wooden huts, in forests. Nature is their god, thought Manfred. He contemplated the sight. After a while, he winked his eyes.
Hilda!
He winked again and the picture of woman he used to love disappeared from the surface of water.

Devilish tricks, he hissed.

It was exactly five years ago when he broke up with Hilda and chose to become a fighting monk – a Teutonic Knight.

Wind blew gently in his face. He closed his eyes and enjoyed a moment of relax. Soon the gentle blow brought words to his ears.

‘My beautiful boy, my dear young boy
Why are you roaming the Sviciaz’ Lake
In the moonlight?

Listen to my words, abandon your world,
and come to dance on the water....‘
Himmelgott! -he shouted and opened his eyes.

The sound was gone. Slowly, he walked along the shore. Manfred was anxious and knew he should be careful. He said the prayer again. It didn’t help.

He felt his hands were shaking, his breath was quick.

“Come!” he heard again.

He stopped and looked around. There was no one. Just the lake.

He looked at the surface of the water. The picture of Hilda appeared again. He made a sign of a cross.

“Don’t resist! Come, my dear” said voice in his head.

Again, he tried to pray to Virgin Mary, but his mind couldn’t remember proper words. Sviciaz' dominated his thoughts and Hilda appeared again – this time as a kind of ghost over the surface of water in the center of the lake.

Manfred gave up and his feet stepped into water. Surprisingly, he noticed water was warm. It was a very pleasant kind of warmth – the one that can only be given by a …

“Woman” flashed in Mandred’s mind.

Involuntarily, he made more steps forward. Sviciaz’ water surrounded his body and he felt pleasant thrill going down his spine. Water caressed his skin. It was delicate and very pleasant. When he was up to his head, he knew he wouldn’t return.

And he didn’t want to.

Another step and his feet got into swampy ground. His whole body went underwater.

“Ich komme, meine Liebe” he said in his thoughts. The water embraced his body in a hug of love. And death.

Gentle wind howled over Sviciaz’. Soon the moon was covered with clouds. Lovers were united and the old Pagan faith triumphed.
Sviciaz' lake is located in Belarus, Central-Eastern Europe, which is historical territory of Lithuania.
From 13th to early 16th centrury Lithuania was in numerous conflicts with German order of Teutonic Knights.
The story is a loose adaptation of old Slavic legend of Sviciaz' lake. © Sep 2019, Krzysztof Drzazga
