My Little Big Escape
Mirror, mirror on the wall...

You would probably call me vain, but I've always been fully satisfied with my body. Beautiful, firm, and above all, natural despite my age. There was no one around, no man to praise it, so I had to complement it by myself.

I knew about different methods women had used centuries and millenias ago. Botox, silicone. Yuck! Those day, it was far better. I had the information about the cross-section of 'means of preserving the youth' saved in the database of the board computer of my spaceship. It also stored tales and stories, among which "The Snow White" I liked the best. In fact, I was many times older than the Wicked Queen might have been and had slept the period Snow White couldn't have imagined. Besides, Sleeping Beauty also couldn't match me... Time didn't mean much for me. Hibernation kept my body intact.

The board computer woke me up. Since it didn't hallow, I had some time to look in the mirror and examine my condition. My make up was quite blurred. The mascara got dried, so my eyelashes were stuck together. A message from the board computer was coming. The hologram with the date 'July, 3rd, 19812002' appeared before my eyes. It showed the Universal Time, appropriate for motionless objects, my time was totally different.

So I was sleeping over two hundred years, I thought.

The ad had stated the mascara was everlasting, so I was a bit disappointed. Nonetheless, soon my thoughts, driven by the woman's curiosity, were turned to the reason of waking me up.

The system satisfied it soon. I was in the galaxy named Holmberg II, in the constellation Ursa Major. The ship slowed down, making the passage of time approach the Universal Time. I was approaching the white dwarf. I knew I could fly near its surface and starting the engines for a short time in the right moment would give me a gravity boost for the further voyage.

Yes. The journey. My memories returned. I missed my my home on the planet W20c1AW, taken over by the Artificial Intelligence. One day it had happened and the inhabitants of W20c1AW agreed to have their arms and foreheads chipped. The AI system fulfilled all their needs. I was among the ones who refused. I lost. My escape lasted since that day. Couldn't my fellows realize the AI was the beast of the last days? The Book of Revelation clearly says about it "forced all people, great and small, rich and poor, free and slave, to receive a mark on their right hands or on their foreheads, so that they could not buy or sell unless they had the mark".

Still on the run I had no idea, what would happen in the future. They had chased me. They had sent a spaceship, piloted by a robot. My escape was successful, but I lost a big part of my fuel supplies. In the crucial moment I headed towards Arctur, the red giant star in the Boötes constellation. My enemy was following me in a distance closer than half a million miles. That was close, he could have gotten me in three seconds, considering the speed of our spacecrafts, a half the speed of light. However, I took a risk. The venture, the machine calculated unprofitable. I came critically near to the star. The robot slowed down. The sensors of his ship were blinded by the radiation from Arctur, while my spacecraft suffered more. The X rays and the nuclear radiation partly broke my shield, and brought some damage to both the plating of the ship and data stored on disks of the board computer. But I was free. I became a space vagabond, roaming in the void. My home was gone and I often wondered if I would find a new one. I had to save the remaining fuel during my wandering. Fortunately, on the board computer was a special navigation program, which allowed to use the gravity of mostly black holes and big stars to travel. Sometimes my velocity reached the speed of light, sometimes I was drifting slowly in the vacuum. Unfortunately, the radars didn't find any sign of life along the path I had traveled in the universe.

Now, something was different. In three hours of the board time the spaceship would approach a nameless white dwarf to use its gravity as another booster. My whole attention was required to supervise the process. One simple mistake and I would fall into the aggregation of dense plasma. How dense? A teaspoon of it would weigh a hundred thousand tones on the  Earth.

Somebody's here! I thought, feeling my heart beating much faster.

Probably a human being. I haven't spoken to anyone for ages!

I decided to use a big leftover of my fuel to get there. The object was on an asteroid. Five minutes later my ship was moving parallel to the space rock. In the meanwhile I corrected my make up. Time was more cruel for it than for me. Only later did I realize subconsciously I hoped I'd meet a man.

I gave the order to land on the asteroid. It was executed another five minutes later. The space rock was small, and I had to use a harpoon to stick my ship to it. I put my spacesuit on and walked out. Gravity stuck me to the surface of the asteroid, but I attached my suit to the spacecraft to ensure the safety. I was surprised with the amount of time I needed localize the signal source, considering the tiny size of the asteroid. When I finally stood before it, I understood why.

„It's not a spaceship, but a capsule, a kind of a rescue one!” I shouted, not caring no one could here me, anyway

The inhabitant of the capsule couldn't do it either. It was a child. I didn't have to open the container to realize the kid was dead.

„Poor little thing..."

The picture before my eyes woke up my maternal instinct. Earlier, I hadn't even known I had it. Such a cute baby wrapped in a blanket, lying among the life support equipment, now broken. The child's skin was dark and dry. The infant became a small mummy. I cried for the little one. Didn't care about my make up anymore.

Such a treasure, such a pity, I repeated in my mind.

Indeed, the capsule didn't fulfill its task. I looked at it once more. After a while I found a slot hidden behind a small protection flap. I recognized the socket and was glad it matched the data port of my spaceship. The capsule was older from my spacecraft, which suggested the child was older from me. Time is space is a poor measure.

Without hesitation, I set up a connection. Downloading all the data was easy. A report was ready in several seconds. Above all, it proved my assumptions. The infant had been dead for more than a thousand years of the Universal Time.

Besides, I learnt his name was Victor, and his parents wanted to save him, sending him in a rescue capsule. In fact, the boy was older than me, but that was nothing strange. He must have been traveling longer than I did.

I looked at the space and contacted my board computer via a transceiver in my helmet. The asteroid was farther and farther from the white dwarf. I couldn't spend more time with the baby. I put my hand on a capsule to tell him good-bye.

"Sleep well, little one.." I recited over the capsule, his grave...

I had no other choice than carry on my journey. Only one thing changed. The mirror on the virtual wall, any mirror didn't interest me at all. My mind was filled with the picture of the dead kid, my soul cried. I wanted so much that my spaceship would take me to a better world. I wanted to find life, I wanted to witness joy. For now, only death and emptiness filled my world. It was time to go to sleep until the computer woke me up again...