Mary (had) Swans
MARY HAD SWANS… instead of a little lamb. A story about little Mary Swans.

The mansion was rather small and old, but its classic style could fascinate architects, both professional and amateur. Tall windows were partially covered by upper branches of trees, introducing the sense of mystery. Huge entrance door welcomed the visitors with creeking hinges. On the back, there was an old garden with a pond. At late autumn nights wind howled among the trees.

Yet, the building wasn't dead inside. What's more vivid than three dozens of children? The government took over the mansion from an old guy for his tax arrears. The former owner, moved to a nursing house, died soon. The town budget was pretty well at that time so the council decided not to sell the property, and it was converted to an orphanage.

The attendants were not bad women, but didn’t give much warmth to children. They just did their duties, and so the orphanage was an emotionless institution, not a home at all.

Nine year old Mary Swans had been in the orphanage for three years now. Too young to remember how her parents died, she still had memories of her early years. She stored them in the back of her mind with the other bits and pieces of the puzzle that was her life. She joined it with photographs, those several she had. As a small girl she escaped from the cold world of the orphanage which fulfilled only her physical needs into her imagination, where she could meet her parents.

All days she was roaming in the garden, and sometimes she was sitting by the pond. One day a pair of swans swam near her. For a six years old child the name of a birds species and her last name could not be an accidental coincidence. She welcomed her parents with a great joy. The birds warmed the little girl's heart.

***

“Mary! Please eat another sandwich,” said the attendant

“No ma’am! This is for my parents. In a moment I am going to them, and we will have a breakfast together.”

“Poor child! Your parents are dead. You must stop dreaming all the time. You have your whole life to live. Get yourself together!”

“Ma’am, I will take this sandwich with me.”

“Do as you wish, but we cannot give you another sandwich. According to regulations two sandwiches are assigned for a breakfast to a girl under ten.”

“That’s all right, ma’am.”

        ***

After the breakfast Mary came to the pond. The swans had already been there, waiting.

“Morning, ma! Morning pa!”

The swans nodded their heads. Mary tore the sandwich to pieces and threw them.

“Bon appetit!”

They ate all the pieces. Daddy, the bigger swan, was a gentleman and left the best pieces to his wife. Mary noticed this and smiled.

“I am so glad that you found me at last! I’ve been really missing you!”

Both parents nodded their heads, and Mary saw them smiling. She took a picture from her pocket, and showed it to her parents. They came nearer to see all the details.

“Daddy! You used to dance with me when I was a small kid, just like on this photo. You took me on your hands, and we were dancing in our home.”

She smiled.

“Now I am a big girl. In fact, I am even bigger than you. Do you think we can dance again?”

In response the father sinuously swam off the shore, made a circle and returned with amazing grace.

“Wonderful!” shouted Mary.

She spent two more hours with her parents, then got back to the mansion. The painting classes had already begun.

“Mary! Why are you late? Quickly get a sheet of paper and take your seat. Today’s topic is birds. On the wall you can see posters of a seagull, a hawk, a pigeon, a canary, a nightingale, and a swallow. The other children have already started, so better hurry. Choose one of the birds and paint it!”

In an hour the classes were over.

"What's this, Mary?"

The attendant winced her face looking at the picture.

"Swans..." was Mary's quiet answer.

"I see...Two swans are touching their beaks together, forming a heart."

She looked at the girl.

“Too bad Mary! You didn’t do the exercise correctly. Now all other children will go to play, and you will paint the correct bird.”

Mary was down, but she did as she was told. Fortunately after another hour and a dinner she could visit the pond again.

“Yesterday we were in a church, mom! The advent began, so in several weeks will be Christmas. Every year Santa Claus visits us, and brings presents. Santa has a red cap, red coat, and always wears ma’am’s shoes. I like his visits, but they are so short.”

She spent another nice day with her beloved parents.

***

Mary was happy, but withdrawn. She often smiled mysteriuosly, didn’t say much about her relationship with the swans. The attendants didn't know about it, but soon they  found her visits to the pond inappropriate anyway.

She was called to ma'am's office. The attendant pointed a chair opposite her desk.

“Mary!" she started calmly. "You have to stop going to the pond. You can fall into the water and drown.”

“But ma’am, no worries! I never walk into the water.”

“We cannot take that risk. Only you from all the children visit the pond. We would have to assign some of us to watch at you, and we don’t have that much employees. One day you could change your mind and walk into the pond, or you can fall in the water accidentally. If something like that happens to you, we will be in a great trouble.”

“But ma’am, these swans are my parents…” she said quietly.

“Stop dreaming, silly child!" the attendant's voice was raised.

Mary dropped her head so that she saw only ma'am's red nails sinisterly knocking at the table. The attendant continued with calm voice.

"I’m sorry, but your parents are dead! We’ve been your family for all these years. You are grounded and cannot walk outside from now on!”

Mary said nothing, just sobbed quietly.

***

From that day forward, she spent her days sitting at the window in the oprphanage corridor, looking at her parents. They were also missing her. Once daddy was flying towards Mary’s window, but a parapet was too narrow for him to land. He had to fly away, because some boys in the yard were throwing stones at him. This scene terrified Mary and  tears streamed down her face.

Another day mommy and daddy authentically sat on two swings on the playground.

“They are inviting me to play! It’s a pity that I cannot go outside.” thought Mary.

Despite this obstacle, the visit made her happy. She looked at her parents and smiled. Unfortunately after half an hour a janitor dispersed the swans.

Several days later daddy and mommy performed a beautiful dance in the sky. It was in the morning, and they were significantly waiting for their daughter to appear at the window, so that they could start the show. It was outstanding, but more awesome was the big love filling the girl. It gave her the real joy of life. At last, after all these years Mary was really happy.

However, her happiness wasn’t to last long. A few days after the swans’ show something very bad happened to Mary. Her parents had gone. They left with no good-bye. Or maybe the dance was their farewell?

Even so, Mary couldn’t stand it. She burst into tears and ran to the attendant.

“What's happened Mary?”

“Ma’am! Daddy and mommy are gone! They have left me again!”

“Daddy and mommy? Aaah! You mean the swans!? Poor, silly child! I’m telling you once more that I’m sorry, but your parents died in a car accident three years ago. Besides, it’s almost winter already so all the birds are leaving…”

Mary burst with tears and ran out from the orphanage. The attendant didn't even try to stop her, just shook her head.

"Silly child" she thought again.

Weeping bitterly, Mary ran to the pond.

"Why did you leave me?" she shouted standing on the bank.

Even though the weather was cold and Mary hadn't put on her coat hot, strong emotions were burning in her heart suppressing the feeling of cold.

A minute later she calmed down and sat on the ground. Tears were still running down her cheecks. Her eyes were looking into the distance and her gaze was somehow absent.

Slowly she began to think over ma'am's words. Maybe she was right? Maybe the Swans were not their parents, but just... swans?

Indeed the orphanage was not a place for a sensitive child, but she could not go to a different place.She wiped her tears and looked at the pond once again. A single white feather was floating on the water. She picked it up. A minute later she returned to the mansion as she finally felt it was pretty cold.

She dried the feather and put it among the pictures of her parents. However, she already knew that they would never return, and kept the feather only to remember about her bitter mistake. The day when the swans left made her grow up. This growing up was cruel...

END
Alternative ending:
...
"Daddy and mommy? Oh! You mean the swans!? Poor child! I’m telling you once more that I’m sorry, but your parents died in a car accident three years ago. Besides, it’s almost winter already so all the birds are leaving…”
"Will they return?"
"I'm sure they will, Mary. Don't worry. They won't leave you here. They just came to warm countries for winter"
"Are they happy now?" asked the girl and didn't stop the attendant's hand from wiping her tears.
"Yes. In three weeks is Christmas. Make your wish upon the first star and it will come true."
"I will, ma'am." said Mary and the attendant hugged  her.
Held by ma'am, Mary looked at the shelf with records. She gently released from the hug, approached it, and took Tshaikovski's "Swan Lake".
Sweet melody from a gramophone filled the room and tiny smile appeared at girl's face.
© Nov 2012, Krzysztof Drzazga
