Medieval Justice Chapter 3

They finished training in the early afternoon. The castle service had to prepare the feast and the stage. The jugglers' training would obviously disturb their work.

It took three hours for castle carpenters to prepare a scaffolding for the main show according to Francois's guidelines.
Monsieur Montpellier's banquet hall was unusually high in comparison with rooms of that type in other castles. The ceiling was over twenty meters above the floor so chandeliers were hanging on nearly fifteen meter long chains. Such length was necessary to allow them to illuminate the hall. Francois ordered them removed for his group's show. Unfortunately he couldn't use the hooks in the ceiling for construction needed for his show, as they were too high. He decided to build a scaffolding, and got castle carpenters do it.
Big nails and very thick ropes connected the horizontal wooden logs atop the scaffolding, six meter above the floor, with the rest of the construction. All the material was delivered by the carpenter who owned a workshop near the barn where the prestidigitators left their wagon.

Three hours later the hall was ready for the supper and the show. The scaffolding for the performance was surrounded by a square of tables, among which one table was a bit taller. It was a table for Lord Montpellier and his guest. Decorated with a white, silk tablecloth, the main table was to host the best dishes. Montpellier's huntsman did their best to hunt a boar in just few hours. Its fresh meat, roasted in fire, was about to be the main dish of the evening. It was also Lorraine's most favorite dish.

The delicious aroma of baked meat traveled under the closed kitchen door and penetrated the hall. It was hanging in the air, waiting to charm anyone who entered the banquet hall.

The hall itself was generously decorated with flowers, sculpted candlestands, and paintings. Lord Montpellier ordered to gather all paintings from his castle and hang them on walls of the banquet hall.

The wall over the special table was also unique. It was decorated with big, two-meter-wide and three-meter-high arms of Montpellier and Lorraine, while Lorraine arms was prepared with a special care and generously decorated with gold. Lord Montpellier was sure that his guest would notice that; he was determined to do anything to toady to Monsieur Lorraine.

From the late afternoon, Montpellier's knights and friendly Lords from neighboring castles had been coming to the hall. An hour later Lord Montpellier was expected to enter the hall and receive his guest several minutes later.

Everything happened according to plan.

****
No torches were lit for the supper as the show were supposed to be performed in the dark.
Montpellier wanted to see Lorraine's reactions during the show so he ordered to place a small candle on their table, which was supposed to enlight his guest's face during the performance.

Soon Jacques appeared on the stage. He was the dancer lost in darkness performing evolutions to slow and peaceful music. Midget Pierre was the one who played the lute. Celine was waiting atop the scaffolding for her turn to enter the show. A thick rope was tied around her waist. Francois was near her holding the rope, ready to move her down gradually. His sword swallowing tricks were to be performed after the equilibristic ballet.

Both of them were counting time to enter the stage. They looked down. Gerard, the leader of the guards, approached Lord Montpellier and whispered something to his ear. The Lord stood up rapidly and gave him some orders. Lorreine was looking at them, flabbergasted. Jacques was still performing his chaotic evolutions and his face showed fear and uncertainty. Soon Rene was about to enter and breathe fire to introduce the atmosphere of great danger. Pierre who was playing the lute gradually changed the music to faster.

Celine knew she had to fire her candle in a moment. Jacques had already been escaping from the flames produced by Rene.

Soon Celine didn't have to fire the candle, as she found soldiers firing all the torches in the hall. The room was all bright. The guards interrupted the show.

"Get him!" shouted Montpellier pointing his finger to Jacques.

Soldiers executed the order. Francois and Celine came down to the floor of the hall to explain the situation to tell the soldiers that it must have been some mistake, but they were arrested too. So were Pierre and Rene.

"Who is the owner of this bag?" asked Gerard showing Jacques's leather sack.
The gypsies were silent and perplexed.
You better admit for I know the answer. If you want to be treated fair, you should cooperate."
"It's my bag." quietly answered Jacques.
"It's your sack then, you gypsie scum!" said Gerard aloud to make sure everyone in the hall would hear him.
He opened the sack, put his hand inside, and took out some box.
"Voila! The jewellery chest, my liege!" said Gerard triumphaly and handed the box to Lord Montpellier.
"Monsieur Lorraine, is this your chest?" asked Montpellier and handed the chest to his guest.
"Yes, indeed." answered he.
Lorraine opened his chest and examined its content.
"It seems all right... Wait! One golden ring is missing." said he after a minute.
Montpellier approached Jacques.
"From the beginning I knew your group was responsible for the theft. Where did you hide the ring, scum?!"
"Mighty Lord, I am not guilty! Someone must..."
Jacques didn't finish the sentence as Gerard's punch sent him on the floor.
"Search him!" Gerard ordered to his men. "And those three too!"
Searching was quick as the prestidigitators wore special clothes for the show, without pockets. Thus, the guards didn't find anything.
"Take them to the dungeon! They will speak during tortures!"
Guards executed the order. Everybody returned to the feast. The performance was interrupted, however, for the noblemen gathered in the hall gossips about the recent event were also a nice attraction.
Montpellier asked Lorraine to walk aside to talk.

"If my guards don't find your ring, I will pay you for it as much as you want." offered Montpellier.

"Montpellier... my dear Montpellier! You have been lucky that your soldiers found my jewellery chest. I agree to your conditions. I want seven thousand guldens in gold, and you have my word that I won't complain to the king."

Lord Montpellier was shocked. This was a huge amount of money, but Lorraine knew that his host would pay it. In fact he was lucky that the whole affair finished this way. He would gradually get this money back,  taxing the peasants and reducing his soldiers' pay. If he lost his prestige, this would be far more severe.

***

The next day a stage for the execution was ready. Lord Montpellier announced his verdict. Jacques was sentenced for decapitation, and the other three members for marking with hot iron and cutting off their right hands. The publicity, gathered on the yard was numerous despite of the rain. Execution was somehow a kind of continuation of previous jugglers' show and another attraction. Citizens of Montpellier were used to brutality.

To provide a good show, the tension had to grow gradually to the culmination. Thus  in the beginning the executioner chopped off the jugglers' right hands and burned their cheeks with red-hot iron.

Jacques, still tied and held by guards, was screaming terribly looking at his beloved Celine maimed by the barbarous executioner. In fact the audience could hear only Jacques's voice as the other three jugglers fainted from the great pain.

He was pushed by the soldiers towards  the executioner. He gave up and put his head on the stump himself.

He was looking at his beloved Celine, now lying unconscious. How could she manage without him? What would her life be in the group of  cripples, with the reprobate Rene and Francois who didn't care much? Besides, none of the could work as a juggler anymore. Wouldn't it be better for her to die together with him?

Soon his eyes was dry just as if he had wept out all his tears. For a short while he was looking left of Celine, on Captain Gerard who swung his coat. He revealed a golden ring hanging on a rope around his neck. It was the last thing Jacques saw in his short life...
© May 2013, Krzysztof Drzazga
