Medieval Justice Chapter 1
It was a sunny summer morning in the city of Montpellier in southern France, Anno Domini 1471. Citizens were busy with their duties as usual, but nobody was in a rush. Women were washing clothes in river La Lez, baking wheat bread, and cooking onion soup. Majority of men preferred sitting in Le Girlladin inn, where they could talk about the virtue of products form vineyards of Languedoc. Several middle-age French were busy with talk indeed, but most of the clients preferred just drinking. Even though the inn was almost full, it was pretty quiet. Beggars sat or stood in narrow streets of the town. Mostly the ground was muddy, and poor paupers suffered serious, though not infectious, diseases. Anyway, lazy citizens didn't pay any attention to them. A great solar clock on the tower of the town hall pointed time, however it was blacksmith's Guarin's hammer that marked seconds. Soon, even it became quiet, when Guarin finished forging a new sword for Lord Montpellier's guards. Again, only murmur of people working could be heard. But adults, the city was also full of children. And soon, dozens of youngsters broke the silence.

“Maman! Maman! The circus is coming!”

“Jugglers are standing by the gate, papa!”

“Hey everybody! There will be show tonight!”

It was the welcome Francois expected. He smiled watching the children running on the yard and shouting merrily. Even though there still was a trellis separating him and his band from Montpellier town, he knew it would be open in a moment, just as the guards would have finished searching their wagon. And soon it happened so.

“Salut, Montpellier!” he shouted loudly.

His voice was throaty. Children answered with laughing, and those adults, who hadn't yet paid attention to the visitors, turn their heads toward the gate.

One man, dressed a bit more colorful than the other guards, approached Francoise.

"Greetings, gypsies! I am Gerard, the  leader of the guards. You!" he pointed Francoise with his finger eyeing his motley, dappled clothes. "As the leader of the group, only you are allowed to have a dagger. Two swords which you want to use in the main show have to be deposited here, and you will get them back for the performance."

Except of these swords soldiers didn't find anything forbidden.

“Move!” Gerard urged the gypsies.

The wagon entered the yard, but as soon as the front wheels left the paved ground under the gate, they dove into stinky mud of the yard to one third their height.

Francoise cursed and Gerard smiled meanly.

August rains soaked the ground and it was hard to move the wagon, but the prestidigitators managed to push the rest of it onto the yard. The same muddy problem occurred to the rear pair of wheels. Fortunately the citizens were so thirsty of the entertainment that they ceased their works and helped to move the wagon forward.

Francoise shouted something in gypsy language and a young couple ran in front of the wagon. They were Jacques and Celine, the best prestidigitators in Francois's group. They both were fourteen, and Celine was a few months younger than Jacques. Nobody didn't actually know how many months, as such statistics weren't important in medieval era. Their arms were moving quickly and hands easily caught each ball. Both of them wore jester clothes, Jacques's dress was yellow and blue and Celine's red.

It wasn't the real show, but a kind of teaser, a medieval advertisement to attract people to the main performance in the evening.

Jacques looked at Celine and blinked his eye. She smiled, revealing beautiful, white teeth. Healthy toothing wasn't common in medieval times. For about half a minute Jacques was admiring his lover. She was fit, and her long, black hair were shining in the sunlight. As an experienced juggler , Jacques didn't have to look at the balls all the time. Indeed, Celine was a better object to admire. Her tight dress revealed perfect curves of her breasts, which Jacques found very sexy.

Soon the wagon approached a yard in front of an old, wooden barn. It was the place to stay for the group of prestidigitators, a kind of a parking lot for the wagon.

In medieval towns there weren't any sewers and any public service. All the garbage and slops were thrown out through windows or doors directly to the street, especially in downtown, the quarter of poverty. The uptown with the Lord Montpellier's castle was behind another ring of fortifications.

“Luckily, we got this dry place near the barn,” told Francoise to his mates.

Irritating smell of rotting food leavings and excrement was far less intense here. To get to the castle and make a performance before the Lord was their dream. For now they were only allowed to enter the downtown by the commander of the gate guards.

Jacques's fingers gently touched Celine's right elbow and he looked directly in her eyes. She smiled. His hand affectionately went down her forearm and embraced her hand. Then he stepped forward. His left hand gently brushed a strand of soft hair away from her cheek and he whispered to her ear.

"I'll pitch a tent here on the lawn for us. Mon amour, this night we'll spend together."

His tongue touched Celine's ear and she chuckled. It was a great perspective for both. For the last week the gypsies were sleeping in the wagon every night. The wagon had to travel all the time and only the driver changed every few hours.

Except for inconvenience the next reason why the tent was better was connected with the fact that Celine complained several times for Rene, a fifty year old fire thrower who used to touch her at night. She had already told about it to their leader Francoise, but he didn't find molestation a problem. Moreover, he ordered Jacques to give up any attempts to revenge...

Pierre, a midget was the last members of the group. Francoise's specialty was knife throwing and tricks with swords.

They made a kind of camp with fireplace near the wagon and the fenced stage for the performance.

Late afternoon, people gathered for the show. Francois had a lot of experience with such shows and he knew he should spread some aroma over the arena. For one reason it was an additional attraction for the audience, for another reason the aroma separated the prestidigitators from the smell of the audience. Indeed, even though the gypsies didn't care too much about their hygiene, Montpellier downtown was significantly stinky.

The show began with Rene fire throwing. Several powerful blows impressed the audience, but that was just a prelude to the next show. Soon Jacques and Celine entered the stage and took their places in the middle, spaced about four meters from each other. They were waiting for the audience to quieten a little bit.

Suddenly, Celine ran, jumped, and embraced Jacques’s waist with her tights. For medieval society such a gesture was in fact obscene, but they didn’t make the show before some noblemen; their audience was a primitive crowd. She closed her cheek to his, celebrated the intimate moment, and took it away, jumping off Jacques, but still holding his hands. Her feet touched the ground and rebounded, sending her legs in the air, and she bent her body at the same time. Her straight legs were now over her belly and her face and pararell to the ground. In this position, the weight of her body, just like a pendulum bob, pushed her in free space between the splayed Jacques’s legs. The flight was, however, short. Her partner’s strong forearms rebounded his legs and after a while Celine went up, her body upside down.
Few seconds were enough for her to restore the balance and for the audience to express their admiration. Celine moved one leg forward, and another one back to keep the balance better. Gradually and carefully Jacques released her right hand, so that her all weight was held on one hand.
After a while her right hand returned to Jacques’s and he delicately put her on the ground.

The audience applauded their show, but it was not the end. Jacques caught Celine’s waist and tossed her up half a meter over his head. She did a twine in the air and tights landed on Jacques arms he just pulled forward. Her crotch was opposite for Jacques’s face, which was another naughty gesture in this performance. It caused the men’s part of the audience to roar. Celine bent her body back and her hands touched the ground. Soon she put her feet in the ground as well..

The audience was very happy, even though the performance wasn't the best gypsies' show. Really seldom did a performance happen it the town.

Francoise walked around the crowd with his hat to collect money. He noticed that Gerard, the leader of the guards, was one of few who threw a precious golden coin.

***

“You will give another show! For Monsieur Montpellier himself! However, make it more decent, and appropriate for Monsieur's wife.”

Gerard's words made Francoise's day, especially that they were told in the late but still morning, the next day after the show. Several guards present on the show must have  expressed their good opinion about the performance, and somehow it reached Lord Montpellier's ears. Or maybe it was Gerald's work. He paid in gold which happened very seldom.

Two hours later the group experienced the first result of Gaerard's words. Francoise together with the whole band were invited to the castle.

The group was walking to the castle. During their march, Jacques was remembering the events which brought him to the group of jugglers.

As a little, three year old boy Jacques became an orphan. His mother died, probably on pneumonia, but there was no doctor even to diagnose the disease. Jacques had never knew his father as he was an illegitimate child. He became a beggar, then he was in the Sisters of Mercy's orphanage, where Fracoise had once came and noticed Jacques's agility during his playing on the monastery yard. Life of a vagant was somehow better for him from praying for most of the day...

***

As soon as the gypsy jugglers crossed the gate of the inner fortifications, they noticed the yard was very different there. Almost all the ground was paved so there was no mud, and the air was a bit more fresh and not so stinky.

They were taken to a small, stone, thatched hut adjacent to the wall. The castle service transported their wagon and left it by their hut. They didn't have much time even to watch the hut inside, so they just left some of their hand luggage and were taken to the castle, to the feast hall. It was an hour after the Lord's dinner and there were still some food leavings on a huge table.

The group was shocked with an outstanding view before their eyes and a terrific smell. Even though most of dishes were eaten, some of them partially, they could not imagine anything better. Jacques was the first one who recovered from the shock. He ran quickly towards the table, put his right foot on a chair and jumped. He made flawless somersault in the air and landed on the other side of the table.

“Voila!” shouted he to his comrades still standing at the door. “Let's welcome Monsieur Montpellier's hospitality!”

The rest of the gypsies moved towards him smiling. Indeed, they had never been welcomed that way.

“Wow! Look at all this food” shouted Jacques merrily to Celine when she was approaching him.

He picked a strawberry from a bowl on the table. He was glad to find such big fruit among food leavings. He threw it towards Celine. It was traveling paraboloid in the air until stopped on Celine's teeth. Her fast reaction, typical for a juggler, was followed by even quicker bite and sweet juice flooded her tongue. She ran to her lover and hugged him.

After a tender kiss Jacques's eyes spotted also a piece of butter on the table, almost intact, and his nose led him to a nearby loaf of bread. Only knife was missing, but a moment later Celine found it and put it in his hand. The strawberry, the kiss, and the warm slices of bread soaked with melted butter was a perfect combination of taste for gypsies who sometimes starved.

The rest of the band also appreciated the supper arranged by the Lord, however, they were more focused on just eating than on celebrating a moment.
***

As the full moon hanged lazily on the sky, casting a gentle light upon the town, the banquet began. Knights, counts, and noble ladies sat at tables full of extraordinary meals, mostly delicious fish from La Paz. Aromatic Sauman, the smoked salmon was the speciality of Montpellier, but noble visitors were eager to try also famous cheese waffles Gauffres and various dishes with Moustarde, tasty French mustard sauce.

When Francoise's prestidigitators entered the hall, they were first struck with wonderful scent of food. Luckily everyone was eating and chatting, only few Lord's guest paid any attention to the jugglers. Soon the band recovered from shock and started the show.

Jacques took his place on a simple arena bounded by tables and nodded to Celine. Then he pulled his arms towards her, and she quickly approached him, caught his forearms with her hands and Jacques put his hands on her forearms. She jumped low and her feet embraced Jacques's waist. He shuddered from the impact of her body, but didn't collapse. This trick had been mastered a long time ago.

They both bent their heads and touched with their tops. She put her feet in Jacques's hands. He raised them to the height of his chest, still touching his head to her head. Celine was slowly bending her whole body during this uplifting. Once she was highly enough, she changed her feet which Jacques was holding to her hands; the left hand first, and the right one after. He carefully moved his left leg forward and the right one backward to keep the balance. Soon after Celine moved her legs up, above their heads. She was upside down. A moment later she moved her left leg a bit forward and the right one back, so she looked like Jacques's mirror image.

Despite tense arms of both jugglers (especially Jacques's arms) nothing disturbed the balance. Soon the applause broke the silence when everyone around the stage was watching them with a great astonishment. Clapping was a sign for the jugglers to go to the next stunt.

Jacques lowered Celine on the ground. Rene entered the stage with a bottle of inflamable substance, containing mostly alcohol, and a torch. Walking around the couple in the middle of the arena, he was spitting with combustible fluid on the torch and short big flames flew in the air. Celine and Jacques were jumping and making somersaults among the flames. The audience, including the Montpellier himself, was highly impressed...

After the show, the Lord congratulated the gypsies. It was the highest honor they could experience. Montpellier also offered them to make another performance for his guest, Monsieur Lorraine, who was about to come in few days.

***
Lorraine arrived on Tuesday night, thus the show and a welcome feast were postponed to Wednesday evening.

However, on Wednesday morning a tragedy happened. Montpellier's guest was robbed. Some thief had stolen his small but precious jewelery chest, a family souvenir.

The group was training when they heard Montpellier's voice on the corridor, muffled by close door of their hall.

“I swear that my guards will find it!” shouted the Lord.

“They better do, Montpellier! If you fail, the king will learn about this great disgrace in your castle!”

“Don't worry! I'll do my best”.

Soon both noblemen went away. The jugglers were wondering how this situation could affect them.

“There is a possibility that they can blame us!” said small Pierre. “The fact that we are gypsies automatically makes us suspect.”

“Indeed, there is such a risk.” confirmed Francoise.

They were talking about this problem for another moment, and then returned to training. What else could they do.

Unfortunately, Pierre's anticipation came true. Two hours after they heard Montpellier's talk with Lorraine, the host of the castle visited them personally.

“Better admit to this crime at once! It would save you a great suffering” he shouted at Francoise. “Always when gypsies appear, some theft happens!”

The group trembled. Francoise spoke with shaky voice:

“But... mighty Lord! We are not guilty... All the time since Lord Lorraine had arrived we spent either here, in this room or in the cottage we had been given by Gerard, the leader of guards.”

“Silence! You are suspected and I'll be watching you personally! So will Captain Gerard!” Montpellier was very angry speaking these words. “Better your performance be really good! You must at least mitigate Lord Lorraine's wrath. Otherwise, you will pay with your head. Each one of you!”

“But mighty Lord...” Francoise's shaky voice was heard once more.

“No! Our talk is over! Now get back to training. Your life depends on your performance!”

Montpellier left slamming the door. The whole group was standing for a minute shocked with his words.

“I told you. Someone stole the chest and the gypsies are guilty,” said Pierre.

“Anyway, all we can do is to get back to training.” said Francoise. “Or maybe you have some idea who could have stolen the chest?”

Nobody had. Jacques embraced Celine to calm her down. Soon the whole group, with their heads down, returned to practicing.

***

They finished training in the early afternoon. The castle service had to prepare the feast and the stage. The jugglers' training would obviously disturb their work.

It took three hours to castle carpenters to prepare a scaffolding for the main show according to Francois's guidelines.

Monsieur Montpellier's banquet hall was unusually high in comparison with rooms of that type in other castles. The ceiling was over twenty meters above the floor so chandeliers were hanging on nearly fifteen meter long chains. Such length was necessary to allow them to illuminate the hall. Francois ordered to remove them for his group's show. Unfortunately he couldn't use the hooks in the ceiling for construction needed for his show, as they were too high. He decided to build a scaffolding, and got castle carpenters do it.
Big nails and very thick ropes connected the horizontal wooden logs atop the scaffolding, six meter above the floor, with the rest of the construction. All the material was delivered by the carpenter who owned a workshop near the barn where the prestidigitators left their wagon.

Three hours later the hall was ready for the supper and the show. The scaffolding for the performance was surrounded by a square of tables, among which one table was a bit taller. It was a table for Lord Montpellier and his guest. Decorated with a white, silk tablecloth, the main table was to host the best dishes. Montpellier's huntsman did their best to hunt a boar in just few hours. Its fresh meat, roasted in fire, was about to be the main dish of the evening. It was also Lorraine's most favorite dish.

The smell of delicate meat traveled in the air under the close kitchen door and penetrated the hall. It was hanging in the air, waiting to charm anyone who entered the banquet hall.

The hall itself was generously decorated with flowers, sculpted candlestands, and paintings. Lord Montpellier ordered to gather all paintings from his castle and hang them on walls of the banquet hall.

The wall over the special table was also unique. It was decorated with big, two-meter-wide and three-meter-high arms of Montpellier and Lorraine, while Lorraine arms was prepared with a special care and generously decorated with gold. Lord Montpellier was sure that his guest would notice that; he was determined to do anything to toady to Monsieur Lorraine.

From the late afternoon, Montpellier's knights and friendly Lords from neighboring castles had been coming to the hall. An hour later Lord Montpellier was expected to enter the hall and receive his guest several minutes later.

Everything happened according to plan.

****
No torches were lit for the supper as the show were supposed to be performed in the dark.
Montpellier wanted to see Lorraine's reactions during the show so he ordered to place a small candle on their table, which was supposed to enlight his guest's face during the performance.

Soon Jacques appeared on the stage. He was the dancer lost in darkness performing evolutions to slow and peaceful music. Midget Pierre was the one who played the lute. Celine was waiting atop the scaffolding for her turn to enter the show. A thick rope was tied around her waist. Francois was near her holding the rope, ready to move her down gradually. His sword swallowing tricks were about to perform after the equilibristic ballet.

Both of them were counting time to enter the stage. They looked down. Gerard, the leader of the guards, approached Lord Montpellier and whispered something to his ear. The Lord stood up rapidly and gave him some orders. Lorreine was looking at them, flabbergasted. Jacques was still performing his chaotic evolutions and his face showed fear and uncertainty. Soon Rene was about to enter and breathe fire to introduce the atmosphere of great danger. Pierre who was playing the lute gradually changed the music to faster.

Celine knew she had to fire her candle in a moment. Jacques had already been escaping from the flames produced by Rene.

Soon Celine didn't have to fire the candle, as she found soldiers firing all the torches in the hall. The room was all bright. The guards interrupted the show.

"Get him!" shouted Montpellier pointing his finger to Jacques.

Soldiers executed the order. Francois and Celine came down to the floor of the hall to explain the situation to tell the soldiers that it must have been some mistake, but they were arrested too. So were Pierre and Rene.

"Who is the owner of this bag?" asked Gerard showing Jacques's leather sack.
The gypsies were silent and perplexed.
You better admit for I know the answer. If you want to be treated fair, you should cooperate."
"It's my bag." quietly answered Jacques.
"It's your sack then, you gypsie scum!" said Gerard aloud to make sure everyone in the hall would hear him.
He opened the sack, put his hand inside, and took out some box.
"Voila! The jewellery chest, my liege!" said Gerard triumphaly and handed the box to Lord Montpellier.
"Monsieur Lorraine, is this your chest?" asked Montpellier and handed the chest to his guest.
"Yes, indeed." answered he.
Lorraine opened his chest and examined its content.
"It seems all right... Wait! One golden ring is missing." said he after a minute.
Montpellier approached Jacques.
"From the beginning I knew your group was responsible for the theft. Where did you hide the ring, scum?!"
"Mighty Lord, I am not guilty! Someone must..."
Jacques didn't finish the sentence as Gerard's punch sent him on the floor.
"Search him!" Gerard ordered to his men. "And those three too!"
Searching was quick as the prestidigitators wore special clothes for the show, without pockets. Thus, the guards didn't find anything.
"Take them to the dungeon! They will speak during tortures!"
Guards executed the order. Everybody returned to the feast. The performance was interrupted, however, for the noblemen gathered in the hall gossips about the recent event were also a nice attraction.
Montpellier asked Lorraine to walk aside to talk.

"If my guards don't find your ring, I will pay you for it as much as you want." offered Montpellier.

"Montpellier... my dear Montpellier! You have been lucky that your soldiers found my jewellery chest. I agree to your conditions. I want seven thousand guldens in gold, and you have my word that I won't complain to the king."

Lord Montpellier was shocked. This was a huge amount of money, but Lorraine knew that his host would pay it. In fact he was lucky that the whole affair finished this way. He would gradually get this money back,  taxing the peasants and reducing his soldiers' pay. If he lost his prestige, this would be far more severe.

***

Stage for the execution was ready the next day. Old, teethless Eldo climbed on the platform with a sheet of folded paper. People knew it was Montpellier's verdict. The sky was dark and it started raining just as Eldo read the beginning of the sentence. Drops of rain were hitting his bald head and going down his wrinkled face. His hoarse voice announced decapitation for Jacques, and marking with hot iron and cutting off their right hands for other three members of the group . The publicity gathered on the yard was numerous despite the rain. Mob demanded entertainment and after jugglers' show people wanted something more brutal. Execution perfectly matched their needs.

To provide a good show, the tension had to grow gradually to the culmination. Executioner took Eldo's place on the platform and four prestidigitators were led to him. Francoise was first. Two servants knocked him down and one of them sat on his back, while the latter stepped on his right hand. Executioner took a great axe. Heavy blade whizzed and Francoise's thumb was separated from the rest of his right hand. The mob was screaming in ecstasy. The same happened to Rene and Pierre. Celine was the last one.

Jacques, still tied and held by guards, was screaming terribly looking at his beloved Celine maimed by the barbarous executioner. Then the torturer burned gypsies cheeks with iron. All four fainted with pain.

"Now it's time for the centerpiece! Get the boy!" shouted old Eldo and the mob started screaming louder.

The executioner gestured for Jacques and he was pushed by the soldiers towards the stump. He gave up and put his head on the stump by himself.

He was looking at his beloved Celine, now lying unconscious. How could she manage without him? What would her life be in the group of  cripples, with the reprobate Rene and Francois who didn't care much? Besides, none of the could work as a juggler anymore. Wouldn't it be better for her to die together with him?

Soon his eyes was dry just as if he had wept out all his tears. For a short while he was looking left of Celine, on Captain Gerard who swung his coat. He revealed a golden ring hanging on a rope around his neck. It was the last thing Jacques saw in his short life...
© Dec 2012, Krzysztof Drzazga
