Medieval Justice Chapter 2

“You will give another show! For Monsieur Montpellier himself! However, make it more decent, and appropriate for Monsieur's wife.”

Gerard's words made Francoise's day, especially that they were told in the morning, the next day after the show. Several guards present at the show must have expressed their good opinion about the performance, and somehow it reached Lord Montpellier's ears. Or maybe it was Gerard's word. He paid in gold which happened very seldom.

Two hours later the group experienced the first result of Gaerard's words. Francoise together with the whole band were invited to the castle.

The group was walking to the castle. During their march, Jacques was remembering the events which brought him to the group of jugglers.

As a little, three year old boy Jacques became an orphan. His mother died, probably of pneumonia, but there was no doctor even to diagnose the disease. Jacques had never knew his father as he was an illegitimate child. He became a beggar, then he was in the Sisters of Mercy's orphanage, where Fracois had noticed Jacques's agility during his playing on the monastery yard. Life of a vagrant was somehow better for him from praying for most of the day...

***

As soon as the gypsy jugglers crossed the gate of the inner fortifications, they noticed the yard was very different there. Almost all the ground was paved so there was no mud, and the air was a bit more fresh and not so stinky.

They were taken to a small, stone, thatched hut adjacent to the wall. The castle service transported their wagon and left it by their hut. They didn't have much time even to look inside the hut, so they just left some of their hand luggage and were taken to the castle, to the feast hall. It was an hour after the Lord's dinner and there were still some food leavings on a huge table.

The group was shocked with an outstanding view before their eyes and a delicious aroma. Even though most of dishes were eaten, some of them partially, they could not imagine anything better. Jacques was the first one who recovered from the shock. He ran quickly towards the table, put his right foot on a chair and jumped. He made flawless somersault in the air and landed on the other side of the table.

“Voila!” shouted he to his comrades still standing at the door. “Let's welcome Monsieur Montpellier's hospitality!”

The rest of the gypsies moved towards him smiling. Indeed, they had never been welcomed that way.

“Wow! Look at all this food” shouted Jacques merrily to Celine when she was approaching him.

He picked a strawberry from a bowl on the table. He was glad to find such big fruit among food leavings. He threw it towards Celine. It was traveling paraboloid in the air until stopped on Celine's teeth. Her fast reaction, typical for a juggler, was followed by even quicker bite and sweet juice flooded her tongue. She ran to her lover and hugged him.

After a tender kiss Jacques's eyes spotted also a piece of butter on the table, almost intact, and his nose led him to a nearby loaf of bread. Only a knife was missing, but a moment later Celine found it and put it in his hand. The strawberry, the kiss, and the warm slices of bread soaked with melted butter was a perfect combination of taste for gypsies who sometimes starved.

The rest of the band also appreciated the supper arranged by the Lord, however, they were more focused on just eating than on celebrating a moment.
***

Lord Montpellier's banquet was in the evening, as usual. The prestidigitators entered his hall. Everyone was eating and chatting, only few Lord's guest paid any attention to the jugglers.

Jacques took his place on a simple arena bounded by tables and nodded to Celine. Then he pulled his arms towards her, and she quickly approached him, caught his forearms with her hands and Jacques put his hands on her forearms. She jumped low and her feet embraced Jacques's waist. He shuddered from the impact of her body, but didn't collapse. This trick had been mastered a long time ago.

They both bent their heads and touched with their tops. She put her feet in Jacques's hands. He raised them to the height of his chest, still touching his head to her head. Celine was slowly bending her whole body during this uplifting. Once she was highly enough, she changed her feet which Jacques was holding to her hands; the left hand first, and the right one after. He carefully moved his left leg forward and the right one backward to keep the balance. Soon after Celine moved her legs up, above their heads. She was upside down. A moment later she moved her left leg a bit forward and the right one back, so she looked like Jacques's mirror image.

Despite tense arms of both jugglers (especially Jacques's arms) nothing disturbed the balance. Soon the applause broke the silence when everyone around the stage was watching them with a great astonishment. Clapping was a sign for the jugglers to go to the next stunt.

Jacques lowered Celine to the ground. Rene entered the stage with a bottle of inflamable substance, containing mostly alcohol, and a torch. Walking around the couple in the middle of the arena, he was spitting with combustible fluid on the torch and short lived big flames flared into the air. Celine and Jacques were jumping and making somersaults among the flames. The audience, including the Montpellier himself, was highly impressed...

After the show, the Lord congratulated the gypsies. It was the highest honor they could experience. Montpellier also offered them to make another performance for his guest, Monsieur Lorraine, who was about to come in few days.

***
Lorraine arrived on Tuesday night, thus the show and a welcome feast were postponed to Wednesday evening.

However, on Wednesday morning a tragedy happened. Montpellier's guest was robbed. Some thief had stolen his small but precious jewelery chest, a family souvenir.

The group was training when they heard Montpellier's voice on the corridor, muffled by close door of their hall.

“I swear that my guards will find it!” shouted the Lord.

“They better do, Montpellier! If you fail, the king will learn about this great disgrace in your castle!”
“Don't worry! I'll do my best”.
Soon both noblemen went away. The jugglers were wondering how this situation could affect them.

“There is a possibility that they can blame us!” said small Pierre. “The fact that we are gypsies automatically makes us suspect.”

“Indeed, there is such a risk.” confirmed Francois.

They were talking about this problem for another moment, and then returned to training. What else could they do.

Unfortunately, Pierre's suspicion came true. Two hours after they heard Montpellier's talk with Lorraine, the host of the castle visited them personally.

“Better admit to this crime at once! It would save you a great suffering” he shouted at Francoise. “Always when gypsies appear, some theft happens!”

The group trembled. Francoise spoke with shaky voice:

“But... mighty Lord! We are not guilty... All the time since Lord Lorraine had arrived we spent either here, in this room or in the cottage we had been given by Gerard, the leader of guards.”

“Silence! You are suspected and I'll be watching you personally! So will Captain Gerard!” Montpellier was very angry speaking these words. “Better your performance be really good! You must at least mitigate Lord Lorraine's wrath. Otherwise, you will pay with your head. Each one of you!”

“But mighty Lord...” Francoise's shaky voice was heard once more.

“No! Our talk is over! Now get back to training.” said the Lord. “Your life depends on your performance!”

Montpellier left slamming the door. The whole group was standing for a minute shocked with his words.

“I told you. Someone stole the chest and the gypsies are guilty.” said Pierre.

“Anyway, all we can do is to get back to training.” said Farancois. “Or maybe you have some idea who could have stolen the chest?”

Nobody had. Jacques embraced Celine to calm her down. Soon the whole group, with their heads down, returned to practicing.
 
© May 2013, Krzysztof Drzazga
 