Mercenary of the Empire
Morning breeze blew in Bjorn's face. It was delicate, but the frosty weather made it unpleasant. Bjorn, however, didn't pay much attention to the wind. He was born and raised far north. He was a Viking, but now eighteen months passed since he had joined the Byzantine Emperor's army as a mercenary. For him and his family it was a great honor, and, obviously, an opportunity to earn a fortune.

Charampolos, his commander, was a short thin Greek. He had told him to patrol a path around the camp. Bjorn didn't respect him very much, but had to follow the order. He was walking slowly. It was so cold that frost rimed a small metal disc he was wearing on a rope around his neck. Bjorn put it under his clothes to warm it up. He shook, as the cold plate touched his body and felt cold drops of water going down his skin. Then he smiled. Winter was the best season for a Viking.

The path he walked, was on a top of a low rampart made of earth. On one side there was a dry moat, now covered with thin snow and full of hidden pickets, adjacent to a palisade which surrounded the camp. Bjorn smiled again, imagining bodies of attackers impaled on these pikes, and the snow getting red.

On another side, the rampart slope turned to a two hundred meter yard, a snowy meadow, on the end of which there were hidden pits and in the distance of another twenty meters thorns formed another protection zone.

Bjorn took another few steps. Bored, he looked at the area in front of the camp. Quite a large distance, almost a quarter kilometer, was the only protection from an unexpected bow shot, but he had a great oak shield. During the briefing, the commander was speaking about Rus camp leavings, quite fresh, seen by scouts twenty kilometers from the Byzantine camp. He reminded, that meant all guards should be significantly careful that day.

Half an hour later Bjorn remembered that briefing.

That dumb Greek was right, he thought, when enemies suddenly appeared. Guards spotted some sappers with axes on the first line of fortifications. Their arms moved quickly and they chopped a passage through the thorns quite easily. Fiercely, a pack of horseman came along and reached the foreground of fortifications. Bjorn heard the raiders' howl and clatter of hooves of their horses. Soon, the first line of attackers disappeared, as they fell into hidden pits. However, the next ones were overwhelming the palisade with arrows, turning back every time they came near to it to pick new arrows and return with another wave.

However, before that happened Bjorn took cover behind the palisade. Some officer squatted next to him at started speaking loudly in Greek.

“Polovtsi... attack... this direction?... strange,” Bjorn understood from his shouting. The Viking remembered he had already fought against this nomadic tribe.

“Must... allied... else,” added Byzantine.

Indeed, after a quarter of shooting defenders spotted well-armed warriors marching with a harpago - a siege hook. They knew they were Ruses. Someone in a distant section of the palisade shouted a command, Bjorn could not understand, and all the archers of the defenders started shooting burning arrows towards the war machine. After they shot a salvo, one of burning arrows stuck in a chest of a bearded Russian warrior. Bjorn chuckled, seeing his long beard, coated with human tallow and remains of fat from food starting to burn. The grubby warrior opened his mouth, but his scream drowned in the noise of the battle. He collapsed after a while.

The attack on harpago was furious, but despite that Rus warriors, marching among Polovtsi waves, finally approached the palisade. Byzantines knew they were outnumbered. For each defender there were almost three attackers. Some of Greek swordsmen, who were waiting for harpago to reach the palisade, spoke their prayers, holding golden crosses on their chests or wrists.

Soon the harpago was at the palisade. The machine, operated by Rus warriors, hooked the highest layer of logs, which formed the blanks of the fence, and torn them. Several logs fell down.

It was a primitive siege weapon, but so destructive for wooden fortifications. Those more experienced soldiers among the defenders knew, it would tear layers of logs one after another, and when the gap would become approximately half of the wall high, the attackers would try to fill it with some inflammable substance like tar, but even hay might be used. Commanders, who had already been fighting against Rus, made their best not to let their soldiers recognize how frightened they were. They knew perfectly, that after starting the fire in the gap, the heat would get inside the fortification wall. Then, it would begin to smolder slowly, so that in short time no one would be able to stand on the top of the fortification, because of terrible smoke coming out, and finally the wall would crash.

Luckily for Greeks, that didn't happen. Soon after several layers of fortification logs had been damaged, a special squad brought a siphon. It was a long ceramic pipe filled with mysterious substance known as Greek fire. Having pointed the siphon to harpago, the commander shouted a Greek word: "Pyr!" which Bjorn uderstood as a command to fire. The pyromancy commenced.

People were screaming, sparks were crackling, harpago was on fire. Inextinguishable. The defenders sighed with relief, but for a short while.

The enemy tried another maneuver. Horses neighed. Hooves stamped. Dozens of mounted archers were flooding the palisade with arrows. Laddermen approached the fence and the real assault started. Attackers managed to climb on the wall, first on the right side, then in several other places.

Invaders appeared also at Bjorn's section of the wall. He welcomed them with a vicious smile. Three soldiers came onto the platform behind the palisade. The Viking shouted and together with Greek warriors moved towards them. After a moment the enemy squad was blocked, and fighting turned into pushing each other with shields. Stuck adversaries made it impossible to walk onto the palisade platform to their troops, as the ladder was just behind their backs. Bjorn swore when a big stone flown next to his head. He realized it was thrown from his back. Then he smiled, when together with other rocks thrown by other defenders, they damaged the ladder.

Bjorn was standing eye to eye with one of assaulting soldiers. He was fat and huge, and Bjorn could feel his opponent's breath on his face. It was almost as stale as Bjorn's. But he quickly realized one more thing.

Viking! For sure!, he thought, Rus must have hired him, just as Byzantines had hired me. For mighty Thor, let the fight begin!

The Viking managed to push Bjorn away. He stumbled, but didn't fall. That allowed the stuck attackers to release. Blades whizzed and two defenders were immediately slain. They fell right to Bjorn. On another side soldiers threw one attacker down from the platform and wounded two others. That made the narrow platform less crowded and fighting turned into a series of duels. The Viking definitely chose Bjorn for his adversary and moved towards him. Heavy axe clattered on Bjorn's oak shield, and he counterattacked with his sword. The adversary dodged, waved his right hand and hit Bjorn's shield again. Bjorn realized it was on purpose.

He's trying to knock me down, banging my shield, he thought.

Now he knew what to do. When the Viking made another hit, Bjorn agily tilted his shield so that the blade of the axe slid off it. That gave him a good position to counter attack. The thrust was fast. The blade sank home in the Viking's big belly. He looked down in stunned disbelief, swayed briefly and his huge, fat corpse collapsed in death.

Bjorn looked around. The battle was coming to the positive end. Most of Rus infantry moved back, but scattered fighting was ongoing atop the palisade. Defenders from secure sections were joining Bjorn and others to repulse the invaders. The enemies were dying, their bodies tossed over the wall like garbage.

Panting, Bjorn wiped the sweat off his face and looked at the dead Viking.

A typical Norman warrior, he thought. One moment! There's something on his neck.

He touched the fallen fighter's neck with the tip of his sword and lifted a dark strap. A thrill went down his spine, when he saw the whole necklace. It was a strap with a metal plate, suchlike his own. He kneeled at the dead body.

I have killed a fellow Viking, thought Bjorn, I didn't know him personally, but he must have come from my village. That's the fate of a mercenary, he sighed.

He narrowed his eyes, feeling a bit of sorrow, but also nostalgic for his homeland. Yet, after a moment he cheered up.

He died holding his weapon, flashed in his mind, Yep! Odin would welcome him in Valhalla.

Bjorn stood up. That perspective made the remorse go away, but the nostalgy remained in his heart. After a while he felt someone patting his shoulder. He turned around. The soldier who came to him spoke.

"Commander Charampolos... wait... your section... fight...well... reward," he hardly understood Greek sentences. He nodded his head, turned around and slowly went towards his superior's tent.

A cold blow hit his face, still sweat after the battle, but Bjorn only chuckled, thinking about his commander.

I wonder if that moron took part in the battle at all, or rather was sitting in the tent, all the time worried about his Greek ass, he thought and smiled.

HISTORICAL NOTE:

Something like that story might have happened for real in the early medieval Eastern Europe (VII to X century). Vikings from Scandinavia took journeys south - to Constantinople, the city of wonders, using Russian rivers, spreading from south to north. Rivers were a kind of medieval hi ways.

Their activities were trifold: trading, pirate attacks, and mercenary service. Sometimes one ship, sailing from Scandinavia at first suddenly attacked and looted villages of Rus tribes (ancestors of Russians), located near the river, several hundred kilometers south the same team traded with another Russian tribe, and on the south they offered a military service as mercenaries to the rich Byzantine Empire. If they were refused (what didn't happen too often, as Byzantine rulers appreciated Viking warriors), they would give the same offer to Rus tribes.

Some Vikings, called Varangians or Varegs by Rus, even became leaders of Rus (e.g. the legendary leader Rurik) Rus wars with Byzantium had always an economical background - they fought either for great tribute, the Empire would pay for not destroying Constantinople or for trade concessions. Nomadic tribes like Polovtsi often joined such campaign as allies. On the other hand, smart Byzantine rulers sometimes paid gold to Nomadic tribes to attack Rus territories, in order to destabilize Rus politics, and thus prevent from their attacks.

Well, the politics of the Empire was complicated and all the possible means were used if they were efficient. Maybe that was the reason, it remained till the end of medieval age...

The name Bjorn means a bear.

© Mar 2016, Krzysztof Drzazga
