Morning, dear
That day started, when I woke up with quite a hangover. Seems you're too old for vodka, I told myself. Indeed, ten years ago such amount of alcohol would do little harm. Still lying, I winked and looked forward and down on my chest. I sweared. I must have fallen asleep with a cigarette in my mouth. Now, my beard, neck, and the white collar of my shirt were dirty with ash. I shook it away and swore again. It burned small holes in my best Gucci shirt. I sighed. My head was pulsing with pain.

I looked right at my Christmas tree. Colorful lights and shining bombs reminded me the jolly time before the divorce, when we celebrated our Christmas. Nothing could compare to warmth and happines of that time. Those preparations, sometimes nervous, always finished with wonderful supper, sharing wafer, wishes, and presents. I sighed again and a tear went down my cheek. Those days would never return.

Yep, we got divorced. Divorced, even though we had never been at the court. I closed my eyes, as hangover attacked with another wave of pain inside my head. I took a breath, not too deep, since muscles of my chest answered with pain. Then another one. I opened my eyes and looked left, at the big knife in my hand. Why do I hold it still, and why in my left hand, when I'm right handed, I asked myself.

Then my sight went half a feet further. Lizzy was there, all in red. Her eyes were opened, full lips smiled delicately with smile I liked so much. Involuntarily, I smiled back. She didn't react to it. Slowly my eyes went down her body. Her night gown was torn in half, revealing her intestines, decorated with blood and her inner mucus. Slightly above, or rather right, considering her horizonal position were several pieces of other visceral organs. For a moment I ceased my memories and concentrated on them.

"They must be stomach and liver", I whispered to myself.

I frowned my eyebrows, trying to concentrate and recall what I learnt in school about them. I moved my right hand towards her and stuck my index finger several inches into one of organs. It was still a bit warm. I moved my arm back and looked at the finger, now covered with red and yellow fluid. I recognized gall mixed with blood and knew that was her liver. I repeated examination of other parts with my other fingers to find three parts of stomach and several more pieces of liver.

"Why was it the liver, I atttacked so fiercely?" I asked myself.

I sighed again and wiped my hand on the sheet. I threw away the knife and turned my body toward Liz. Another wave of hangover ran through my head. I closed my eyes, and opened them when it ceased. Carefully, I took her head and put it on my shoulder. I patted her hair. Soft as always, they smelled with her favorite shampoo. I kissed her forehead, and gently hugged her.

"Good bye, my dear," I whispered softly.

I heard cars driving outside, and soon rain knocked the panes of my windows. Outside, the life went on as usual, but for me my beloved was lost.

Getting sick? I am. © Jan 2019, Krzysztof Drzazga 