Price of treason
About Germans, Poles, and a word about Jews.

I come from Poland. From 1795 to 1918 my fatherland was occupied by Germans, Austrians, and Russians. In fact it didn't exist as a country, but was still alive in people's hearts.

Walenty (Valentine) Hałupka was my great grandfather. He was born in 1900 and had a twelve years older brother Antoni (Anthony). Both of them spent their childhood still in the German Empire, as before 1918 there had been no Poland on the world map. They lived in a pretty small village Torzeniec and both attended to a German primary school. Nowadays Torzeniec is located in the Greater Poland district/voivodeship south of Poznań city.

In 1914 the World War 1 started and the brothers were drafted to the army of Kaiser Wilhelm, the German ruler. The war was significantly hard time for Poles, as sometimes Polish soldiers under the Russian rule had to fight against Poles in German army. 1

Walenty was in a better situation than his brother, because he joined the army only about 1916 or 1917. At that time Germans had to recruit younger and younger boys, since the shortage of older recrits. In 1918 the war was over and finally Poland gained independence. Soon later Walenty was fighting in the Greater Poland Uprising and after also took part in the Polish-Soviet War in 1920.

Thus both Hałupka brothers, Walenty and Antoni, knew the German culture very well and also the language in speech and writing...
With the end on WW1 Poland finally gained independence after 123 years of slavery. However, the society was mixed. Sixty nine per cent of people were Polish and fourteen per cent had Ukrainian ancestry. Nine per cent were Jewish and it was the biggest concentration on their  population in Europe, almost three millions citizens.

Like other European countries, Germany suffered hard after the defeat in the World War 1. They lost some territory, mostly to Poland. The consecutive German governments were falling quite often, and no one could stop the crisis. In the mid thirties of the twentieth century the rule over Germany was given to the man who finally dealt with the hard economic situation (or at least made people believe in Germany once more). He was Adolf Hitler. His heavy-handed rule imposed discipline to Germans, and also showed the very concrete source of the problems - Jews! Itwas an easy way to blame them for all misfortune.

One of the main points of Hitler's program was obtaining land for Germans. Hitler, despite being Austrian himself, claimed that that there was too little room for for his great German nation to live, and proclaimed that Germans were cheated with the provisions of the Treaty of Versailles. Thus, they had to demand land for themselves.

Germans have always been a nation of practical solutions. Hitler's government adjusted the economy to military production and soon it improved. Hitler saw an opportunity to kill two birds with one stone. He decided to attack Poland to gain more living-space for Germans, and... almost ten per cent of Polish population was Jewish, mostly in cities.

Having these three millions Jews in Poland, Hitler made a decision. As soon as Poland would be conquered, he planned to create the biggest concentration camp on the Polish land in Auschwitz (Polish Oświęcim) and the death camp nearby, in Birkenau (Polish Brzezinka) to reduce the problems with transportation. Indeed, Germans have always been well-organized. Soon his plans came true.

When World War 2 started, Walenty was 39  and was recruited to the Polish army. 51 year old Antoni stayed at home. His two sons were drafted instead.
Britain and France, which promised to help Poland in case of German invasion, did nothing, and in one month our fatherland was defeated.4 Especially that on the 17th September also the Red Army attacked Poland from the east. Polish army had already been heavily bled so to the resistance against Russians wasn't significant.

During September fights Walenty became a POW, so did his nephews. Germans took Walenty to north-east, and ... released him somewhere in East Prussia. (I don't know why) He was free, but had to travel more than 600 kilometers (over 350 miles) to his home village, mostly on foot due to the lack of money. Antoni's sons were not so lucky and had to stay longer in their POW camp. The conditions in their camp were dramatic...

Meanwhile Nazi were organizing structures of the new authority on the conquered Polish land. The territory of Greater Poland with village of Torzeniec was assigned to a new district Warthegau, the Land of Warta (from the name of the main river in that area). For obvious reasons it could not be called the Greater Poland anymore. The conquered territory in the north, near the Baltic Sea was renamed to Danzig-Ostpreussen. General Government with Warszawa (Warsaw), now the former capital of Poland, was the third district.

Adolf Hitler, in his book Mein Kampf, had stated that he was going to reject any "ratially foreign element" from the new country which he wanted Germany to become. Heinrich Himmler, the chief of SS organization and Hitler's right hand, was not so radical and paid attention rather to physical human features than to ancestry. He wanted to create the land of blonde people. This was more pragmatic thinking as there was really not enough “pure Germans” to populate the conquered area. Hitler's slogan “There is not enough room for German nation” was utter fiction. Himmler stated  that these true Germans were somewhere there, hidden among the other nations, and the “holy” German blood was mixed with the blood of “worse category”.

Himmler somehow convinced Hitler to his idea, and in March 1941 so called German nationality list (DVL – Deutsche Volkslist) was introduced. 5 The goal was to gather and classify people who had German ancestors.
DVL allowed to assign people to one of four categories:
Category 1, the elite: former Polish citizens, speaking German language and belonging to German organizations before the war; they received German citizenship
Category 2: people who "belonged to German race" and kept using German language living under Polish rule; they also received German citizenship
Category 3: Germans in mixed marriages and their children
Category 4: renegades, who used to act against Germany despite German ancestry
Members of the third and the fourth category didn't have the citizenship, but some additional privileges in comparison with Poles.
This system, however, didn't include all cases. Thus, the practical use of the new law often depended on the German governor of the district.

The Land of Warta was ruled by Artur Greiser. Introducing the DVL played a seamless role in that district, as Greiser was very rigorous and ordered to strictly check every "candidate for a new German". This orthodoxy caused that situation in the Land of Warta didn't change a lot and this area was still dwelt mostly by Poles.

Alber Foster, the leader of  Danzig-Ostpreussen district was Greiser's rival, and didn't mind to follow Greisler's policy. Thus, it was much easier to enter the DVL in Foster's northern district. In fact, in the end of 1941 Foster allowed any former Polish citizen who could speak German and hadn't acted against Germany could sign the DVL.

That was a chance for Antoni's sons. Antoni Hałupka left Torzeniec and moved to Gdynia, quite a big city in Foster's district. Together with his wife and children, he signed the DVL and the family became German. Soon his sons were free. Antoni betrayed the fatherland for his children! The rules of entering the DVL must have been not too strict, as Hałupka in Polish means a small cottage (it should be written 'chałupka' but it reads the same). Definitely none of their ancestors (and mine as well) had never been Germans. Antoni's service in German army during World War I was in this case helpful, as well as his good knowledge of German language and culture. I have no information which category the family had been assigned to, but I suppose it was category three.

What happened then? As Germans, Antoni's family prospered pretty well, considering the war circumstances. They were “the privileged ones”.
Nevertheless, the whole situation didn't have a happy end, and Antoni learnt about it quite soon.
“You are the new Germans? Then prove the loyalty to our new fatherland!” they heard one day in the office.

Three Antoni's sons were drafted to Wehrmacht, the German army about a year after signing the DVL. Becoming German soldiers they made a military oath “I swear by God this sacred oath that to the Leader of the German empire and people, Adolf Hitler, supreme commander of the armed forces, I shall render unconditional obedience and that as a brave soldier I shall at all times be prepared to give my life for this oath."
Indeed, they pledged  allegiance not to Germany, but personally to Adolf Hitler.

Nazi had a special place to send Volksdeutsche to let them prove how they loved their new fatherland. It was the Eastern Front, the hardest section of war struggle. Thus, two of Antoni's sons died under Stalingrad in 1942 or 1943, the place of the third son's death is unknown...

Antoni Hałupka paid the highest possible price for his treason. Neither Walenty, nor anyone from my family had never heard about him after that tragedy. Walenty had some troubles after the war because of his brother's treason, but finally proved that he didn't signed the DVL like his brother.

At the end, I'd like to leave you, reader, with a question: “Would you betray your fatherland for your family?”

PS. Please don't ask me to give more details about Antoni Haupka. I have written everything I know. Each person mentioned in the text above has died pretty long time ago (of course except for me). Thus, I have no possibility to learn more about this interesting, but a very sad case.

References:
The main source of information is my grandma's memories. She was Walenty's daughter.
1 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Poland_during_World_War_I
2 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greater_Poland_Uprising_%281918%E2%80%931919%29
3 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polish%E2%80%93Soviet_War
4 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phoney_War
5 Mark Mazower “Hitler's Empire. Nazi rule in occupied Europe” Part 1, Chapter 7
© Dec 2012, Krzysztof Drzazga 
