The Profits Of War(Prologue)

Breslau, the Third Reich, autumn 1936

Windy weather was perfect scenery for Dorota's drama. Dark clouds announced heavy showers would happen soon, but her face was already wet. Cold wind increased the unpleasant feeling of tears running down her cheeks, but the real sorrow was inside the heart of a 5'9 tall, dark haired, blue eyed beauty.

She still couldn't believe it. Rudolph broke up with her. Moreover, he couldn't have chosen a worse place to do it. The square in front of Hauptbahnhof, the main railway station was quite crowded. Fortunately for Dorota, the cold weather made people want to take cover inside the building of the station as soon as possible. Thus, no one paid attention to her tears.

Neither did Rudolph. Six feet tall, with short blonde hair and gray eyes perfectly matching the color of the day, he didn't see her tears. She started crying only after she turned away from him.

"I can't be with you since you have Jewish ancestors. I know your grandma was Jewish." Rudi's words still sounded in both former lovers' minds. Probably at that moment it was the last thing which joined them.

Rudolph was watching her leaving for about five minutes before she disappeared behind the corner of Neue Taschen Strasse. The street led almost directly to her apartment flat in the very center of Breslau.

'Her grandma was Jewish, but died when Dorota was three, so she can't remember her,' thought Rudi. 'Anyway, the apartment flat in the city center, well equipped, with central heating and gas enlightenment.... Jews are rich. The nation of bankers. Only one person in her family had Jewish ancestry and it was enough to provide her parents with a great wealth. Her father is Polish which is also not good.'

Throughout history Jews were often persecuted. In many European countries they weren't allowed to practice some occupations. Trading and banking, however, were not on a 'black list'. Poor Jews often sold onion and garlic on streets which made the society find them stinky. The rich ones were bankers, which led to a stereotype of a stingy Jew. Nevertheless, not always was it false.

Rudolph had to brake up with his quarter-Jewish girlfriend. He had already chosen a different way. Nazi forces were his future.

With heavy heart, but proud of his courage, he took a tram home. Waiting on a tram stop by Sadowastrasse, he bought a newspaper "Schlesische Tageszeitung" for his father. On the first page was a great photo of Adolf Hitler on the railway station. Fuehrer had been there a week ago, but newspapers still reminded about this event.

When his tram passed the cafe where he spent many pleasant hours with Dotota, he just turned his head. Half an hour later he was home. Unlike Dorota, he didn't live in a rich quarter of the city.

“Did you do it?” asked Andreas, his father.

Rudi nodded his head and gave him the newspaper. His father sat in his favorite armchair and put the paper on his lap.

“Very well my son! You've made the right decision.”

Father's compliment, which would make him happy in a different situation, made the memories of the situation return. Rudolph was self-possessed so far, but Andreas's words somehow released strong emotions. Suppressed till now, they burst in Rudi's heart.

He turned his head not to let his father see tears running down his cheeks, but unexpectedly he faced Martha, his mother.

“My poor boy!” she patted his head and wiped his tears. “Sometimes choices made in life are not easy. You have my sympathy.”

“Leave him alone!” said Andreas behind the already opened newspaper. Rudolph saw only the picture of Hitler before the railway station with angle of his eye. “Joining SS was a good choice. They will make him a man.”

For a minute he was reading some article. Martha didn't follow her husband's order and hugged Rudolph.

Father laid the newspaper on a table near his armchair and spoke to his wife and son. They turned their faces towards him. Martha was still embracing Rudi.

“Too long has our family experienced the hard time of the crisis. I always had a job, so had mom, but despite this fact we still couldn't afford basic goods. Don't you remember, son?”

Rudi nodded his head.

“Inflation was unbelievably high.”continued Andreas.”During the several worst weeks employers paid a salary twice a day so that we could afford to buy anything. Eight to ten hours later this money was worthless. Hundred thousand Marks  for a loaf of the second category bread, over a million for a pound of cheese. That's right, we were millionaires, which meant we were poor. And then Hitler came and showed us the root of all this evil – the Jews. Indeed, Jewish bankers have never suffered poverty. Hitler got the power and quickly repaired the economical situation. Jews do not rule anymore and our life is normal.”

“I am only worried about one thing.” interrupted Martha.

“What is it?”

“Rudi is joining SS, the Nazi forces. Have you seen his future comrades? Hans Schutzke, a criminal who spent over two years in prison for fights. His sentence finished about thee years ago and he joined SS. Helmut Sacker, sentenced for rape, now an SS officer.”

“Well, it seems SS made them good citizens.” answered Andreas. “Besides, Schutzke was drawn in the criminal world by his Polish friend Gniłka. Poles are also a plague. We live in German Reich! It's a place for Germans! It's good Rudi broke up with that girl. She is... half Polish, a quarter Jewish, and a quarter German. Huh!? Freak! Her father calls our city Wrocław, not Breslau. It's an outrage!”

***

The next day Rudolph reported at the SS headquarters near the Keiser Bridge. A massive, semilunar-shape building was as majestic as the organization he drafted in. The black uniform with swastika on a red bandana on left arm made him feel proud. He was  German. He didn't need a foreign girl. He belonged to the race of the masters....
with andy stephenson 

Photo from the newspaper:
http://img.webme.com/pic/a/atrakcje-wroclawia/nazi5.jpg
The main railway station is in the background.
© Feb 2013, Krzysztof Drzazga 
