Proteus
Stranger, mutant, freak ... These are only a few terms people call me. Living behind the society, but sometimes being respected, or they pretended they esteemed me when I was needed. And I needed gold. It's always been a fair deal.

That day was not different. As dawn worked its way above the still and shattered skyline, I saw my destination. A small village, I would say humble, had to incur debts to neighboring settlements to hire a monster slayer. And when I came, responding to their announcement divulged in all the inns around, they didn't expect their savior would be a woman.

I browsed through the muddy village road and entered the only tavern. The eyes of most of the peasants followed my walk. None of them dared to say a word or approach closer than ten yards.

Inside of the decaying hut, that the villagers somehow managed to call an inn, the scent of cheap oat beer and poor quality weed unsurprisingly filled the air. The door must have been ripped off its hinges a long time ago. The inn's customers were more focused on drinking and chatting, so hardly anyone noticed my presence. I asked about a monster.

"Well, there is also another daredevil, who wants to beat the wyvern," said a fat, middle aged man, the mayor of the village. His lips formed a pitiful smile. "You have to wait for your turn."

That was a surprise, but I could wait.

"What's your profession?" he inquired.

"Witcher."

"A female witcher?" he said loudly and the rest of the inn gazed at us. The smile disappeared from the mayor's face.

"Well, if Yorik fails, you can take your chance," he finished, pointing at a knight sitting at the wall.

"My price is four hundred. In gold!"

"As you must have heard from the rumors, the reward we offer is three..."

"Four hundred," I repeated.

The mayor thought about it for a while.

"Deal," he said, completely devoid of all emotion. "If Yorik fails..."

In general, people have always been afraid of witchers. They've called us half-people, and thought we have elvish origin. It's a false superstition, we're humans, but the mutation we go through make us different. We cultivate special fungus which penetrates our bodies, sharpens all senses and roots in our brains. Yes, we can see in dark and we can predict what future brings. Every witcher is a proteus in his surrounding.

I approached Yorik. A half rusty cuirass on his torso and a battered helmet on a table before him seemed to be everything left from his armor ... and his former glory. Strands of gray hair, dirty and unshaven, without a henchman; the picture before my eyes didn't match the hero from the Second Elvish War. Maybe it was a different Yorik.

"So... a professional will kill the monster if old Yorik fails," he started, releasing unpleasant beer smell directly to my face. I noticed he lacked several teeth. He took his pipe, struck a wooden match with his thumbnail and relit it. Bitter smell of weed replaced the beer odor. I couldn't decide which was worse.

Killing monsters for money was witcher's main professional activity.

My interlocutor stood up, tensing his broad arms, which had been so far unrevealed by the crooked position of his body.

"Although my best days have been gone, I can deal with that wyvern. When I finish, I'll return to this inn, and let you warm old Yorik's bones with your young mutant body."

He grinned around the pipe.

I was used to similar, pathetic proposals, so his words didn't make any impression on me. Before me stood an old unshaved slattern, drunk and smelly. I didn't know a woman that could get excited with him.

I smiled faintly.

"I'd rather not," was my short answer.

Another thing wondered me. Could a fifty year old warrior be sexually functional, or what kind of amulets did he use? Anyway, I was not up to check it...

"When do you set off?" I inquired.

"Soon, after the dinner,"he tightened his lips.

He did as he told me. He didn't return. Hunters, who accidentally went too far into the forest, found his body. It was the next morning and they were lucky not to meet the wyvern. Only Yorik's old cuirass allowed them to identify him, the former hero.

People gathered in the inn responded with murmur at the news of Yorik's death. Only one person seemed unimpressed.

"It's your turn now, witcher!"

The Mayor's words were spoken without emotions.

There was no time to wait. I double checked my equipment. My one hand sword was definitely my best comrade. Its blade shone in the light of a tavern candle stand. The weapon wasn't heavy, but it had already brought death to multiple dragons, basilisk, werewolves, and ... Yes! I remembered beating two wyverns.

The blade of my sword required constant maintenance, as blood of monsters was often acidic. Magic runes, expertly carved on its surface, were only the basic protection for the steel.

My cuirass wasn't rusted like Yorik's. Even though it was made of thin steel, his armor couldn't mach the quality of mine. Reinforced with witchers' magic, the cuirass was the finest specimen. So was my helmet. In my backpack I carried the usual sort of herbs, potions, and amulets. The talisman, I wore around my neck, mitigated the effects of venom. That was the best I could choose against a wyvern.

I left the village. Contrary to Yorik, nobody wished me good luck, no one patted my shoulder. People followed according to the common prejudice about witchers. A female witcher was even more weird.

Either she dies or the monster dies, the world will be better, seemed to be expressed on their faces.

I left the stench of their pigpens and cowshed behind my back and the only way took me to the forest. Contrary to my expectations, the wood was green, visibly vivid, but mute. No sound of animal, no other sign of life.

I unsheathed my sword.

I was walking a dirt-track, passing pines, firs, and larches. They blossomed, releasing scents I would admire another time. At that moment it could hide the smell of the monster.

The wind slightly moved some branches and silently howled among the trees. Then it ceased. A cone fell down from a tree, then another. A while later, another sound interrupted the silence. Barely audible, but I found it meaningful.

Indeed, rustling branches could mean only one. If there was a wyvern in the forest, all other animals would be gone or, more probably, eaten.

About twenty yards left and upside, flashed in my mind and my eyes followed the thought. I saw nothing, just branches.

After another moment of silence, I chose my tactics. I put my backpack on the ground and took gas balls.

Some bushes rustled. I recognized they were moved by the wind. But then the forest trembled after inhuman roar.

The beast was fast. Falling on its prey, its wings folded and extended head, her mouth presenting sinister set of stiletto sharp teeth. It was maybe twice bigger than a cow and it stroke quickly.

But I was faster. A quick roll left, and the place the monster landed was empty, almost.

The wyvern turned its head towards me, but soon the monster disappeared in the cloud of gas. The balls, I left on my previous location released the deadly fog. It would kill any man and most of big animals, but the wyvern made few steps and left it at its back. The eyes of the monster wept heavily, its mouth surrounded with frothy saliva. The wyvern was mad.

Without hesitation, I directed my sword at the monster. The moment was right. The beast rushed towards me.

How's that possible? flashed in my mind. Its senses are irritated.

I didn't appreciate its smell or maybe the wyvern had the sixth sense? I wondered just in the moment the beast stuffed up on my sword. The impetus of the strike brought me on the ground. I felt a paralyzing pain blossoming over my right arm. The cuirass saved my chest.

I'm not the expert in the magic of healing, but almost involuntarily I whispered the few spells I knew. Just to soothe my pain. I decided to take care of my arm later.

If I survive, flashed in my head.

The painkiller acted quickly. I rolled and propped my body on my healthy hand to get up.

Standing on my foot again, I grabbed a dagger hidden in my boot. Only then my eyes turned towards the monster.

I couldn't estimate if the wyvern was agonizing or just throwing its scaly body in pain. Its dark blood spouting from its head and dripping on the ground. My sword was still half sank in its head. How could the monster still be alive?

I threw the dagger towards the belly of the wyvern. The finest steel reinforced with magic of druids pierced the scales, that would stop any normal blade.

The wyvern finally collapsed, turning its head towards me. Involuntarily, I made a step back. The decision proved to be right, just a pity I didn't moved further.

The wyvern released a purple cloud of toxic vapor. I moved my hands to protect my face, the right arm refused to follow.

Choking and coughing, I turned back and started running. Browsing across trees and bushes, I didn't see a thing. I felt that something swept my legs out from under me. I collapsed.

Adrenaline gave the control of my body to the basic instinct. I felt the fear, clinching my heart. If the monster survived, it meant the end of me. I turned my head, trying to see the enemy. My eyes were still watering, but blinking several times I could partly restore the visibility.

There was no one after me. I stumbled on a root.

Exhausted with fight and dazed with wyvern’s poisonous cloud, I lay my head on the ground and closed my eyes.

Was it sleeping or unconsciousness, I don't know.

The mechanisms of my mutagenic body started their work, removing toxins with sweat. I woke up, trembling to fall asleep again. How many times, I don't know. I felt my right arm pulsing with pain, then getting warm. Finally, it became numb.

It was late afternoon, when it was done. I opened my eyes and sat.

I coughed three times and blinked my eyes to remove the remaining tears. I stood up.

My arm was painful, but I knew the healing process had already begun. However, it still needed time and probably the assistance of a medic, who would immobilize the arm. The classical medicine was often irreplaceable even by the best magic or mutagenic processes.

It took me a while to find the monster. Its dead corpse was still between the trees. I tore my sword from its head and put the blade to my sheath without cleaning it. Purposely.

I found my bag and took some healing herbs from it. I prepared a simple dressing for my arm. I looked around once more to make sure nothing precious was left.

It's time to get back, I decided.

My feet took me to the village. It was already dark, when I entered the yard. The few old guys who saw me, disappeared in their huts. Soon, the whole settlement gathered around me. The mayor stepped forward.

"So... I can see you coming back. The fight must have been heavy."

"The wyvern is dead. Now, the payment," I said shortly.

"How will you prove you've killed the monster?"

His flippant smile annoyed me.

I unsheathed my sword as the answer to his question. I raised the tip and pointed it towards the villagers, not in a threatening, but a very meaningful way. The blood of the vywern dipped on the ground. They stepped back.

"The forest is near. Send your men to check it out!"

Mayor's smile disappeared. He hesitated for a moment, but apparently didn't decide to verify my words. He slowly approached me, avoiding the blade. Then, he extended his hand with a sack. A moment later I was holding my payment.

"If there's less than four hundred in gold, you know I shall return."

"No need to worry. I didn't cheat you."

I had no reason to stay. I left the village.

The amount of gold in the sack was appropriate. I chose the way to the east. In a next town they pointed me the way to the town, where I could find a medic. The money I earned was enough not only to pay him. Within the following month, in the city of Namyslow, the market of magic would begin. I knew, I didn't have to hurry to get there.

© Aug 2013, Krzysztof Drzazga
