A School Horror
The high school had a good opinion in the surrounding. „The best place to educate electricians,” said people in the town. Anyway, I knew the reality. Nowadays, the education was poor on every level. I didn't expect anything above the poor average. Later I learned I was right.

I took a teacher's job there after my wife had passed away. She was only 33 and the police investigation didn't lead to any meaningful conclusion. Neither did the coroner, his statement saying about 'some kind of hemorrhage'. Thus, I inherited a three room flat and a land in the suburbs. The rooms were still filled with her scent and the land, where we had been supposed to build our house, didn't have electricity and water.  My wife rested in our soil. I buried her myself near a shed. You have finally dwelt here, I thought pouring soil on her coffin. My all postive feelings towards the humanity were buried together with her.

Roaming in my flat, so empty despite the massive classic furniture, I was upset. We had never been a perfect marriage, not even a good one, but I missed her.  Nonetheless, it was time to close that chapter of my life. She had often told me we should live a good life. I decided to reject the morality.  I took a dose of crack. I took drugs even when she was alive.  The stimulant used to be one of two main reasons of our marriage quarrels. Religion was the latter.

She didn't like it, but she had to go to church alone, I had an occult background. She began to argue every time I playbacked death or back metal music. Finally, we reach a compromise, so I used headphones. But now the music made all the furniture in the flat tremble. I wanted it to take the emptiness away. It was partly successful, as the music provoked visions in my dazed mind. It was a good addition to the dope. Yep, the crack was ass-kicking.

It was that day, exactly a month after the funeral that I met him for the first time. He was standing before me, mute. Big, terrifying warrior in black armor. I smelled sulfur and saw the red glow surrounding him. Was he satan or devil, I didn't know. I called him the Lord of Death. His face was hidden behind a black helmet. I felt great power emanating from his posture, making goose bumps on my entire body. Soon, the vision was gone.

I didn't know when I had fallen asleep, but after waking up, my mobile reported three unanswered calls. I called back. It was Mrs Dorothy, the principal. She expected me on a teacher's meeting tomorrow. I had the whole day free. When I recovered after the crack, I made some shopping, cleaning and laundry.

The meeting was boring as hell. I got my schedule. My classes began the next day. I didn't take crack, as I had to prepare a lesson for tomorrow. The handbook and internet made my task quite easy, but still it took the whole afternoon and the evening. Exhausted, I laid myself to sleep close to the midnight.

It's interesting what someone who had never worked at school can imagine about conducting classes. I tried to refer it to the period when I was a student myself. I knew I had to be tough to those teens, but the situation surpassed me.

"Watch your words, motherfucker! You shitty scum!" I heard during the first lesson. Kids liked to tease each other. I wrote about ten rebukes in the register for the first quarter of the lesson. It didn't help, they didn't care about anything.

Even though I was glad many of them drew pentagrams and different occult symbols on their desks, I found them real assholes. Damian was the worst.

I was writing on a board when I felt something small hit me. I turned back and noticed a crumpled piece on a floor. I was mad, my face turned red.

"Who threw it?" I asked angrily.

Nobody answered me. While all the kids were smiling, Damian was laughing loudly.

I tried my best to keep the class calm, but it didn't work.

"Asshole!" I heard at the end of the lesson, when I was writing on the board again. I recognized Damian's voice. This time the invective was for me.

"You're the asshole Damian!"

"Mister! Please don't insult me. It wasn't me who shouted."

"Who then?"

"I don't know. I was making notes. If you wish we can go to the principal. I'll tell her how you've called me," he smiled insolently.

I knew he was lying, but couldn't do anything.

At home I performed occult rituals to make any possible harm to the bastard. I cursed him, I hexed his family. I called the Lord of Death and beg him to punish the brat. Nonetheless, at school Damian still drove me mad. In the beginning of the next week my anathemas worked. He was ill.

Lessons were far more pleasant without him. The only problem I had with the class was talking. Unfortunately, Damian returned the next week. Once more, he was driving me mad.

I knew I had to act decisively. After classes I returned to home only for a moment. I changed clothes, took some chemical stuff and got into my car.

I drove to the address from the class register. I found the house quite easily. The mansion was beautiful, surrounded with a big garden. Tall pine trees testified the advance age of the house. Dense bushes in the garden looked semi-wild, but all the plants together formed a wonderful harmony. The path to the porch was half dark, because of dense trees. It was mysterious and beautiful. I remember my wife always wanted to live in such a mansion.

With a bag on my shoulder and glasses on my nose, I looked like a typical teacher. I rang the bell twice, before she opened the door. She was middle aged and her short, dark hair stressed her corpulence. She wore a sport suit and slippers, which definitely didn't match her figure. It was half past three.

“Mrs. Diana Walker? I'm your son's teacher. Can we talk for a while?”

“Damian's not home.”

“But I'd like to talk to you. There is a problem with your son.”

Unwillingly, she let me in. I followed her through a dark corridor. It was a perfect occasion. I put my hands in my bag. The right took a rag, the left found a flask. I poured chloroform on the rag inside my bag, but she didn't turn back anymore. Seconds later she was lying on a floor, unconscious. I tied her and carefully took to my car. I drove to my land. There was a small shed. None of the neighbors didn't start to build a house, so there was no one in the radius of several miles. Inside, here was an old bed, me and my wife used to make love. I removed the mattress and set it vertically. The bottom was a kind of a trellis. I fixed the bed to the wall with many nails and bolts. I double checked it. It was stable.

I undressed her and strapped her fat, naked body to the trellis. I took a lighter and a spoon from my coat and boiled some crack. I took several deep breaths of the precious vapor. Pleasant thrill came down my back. After a moment, I noticed the chilly air woke her up.

“What.... where am I?” she faintly inquired.

My answer was emotionless.

“No worries, ma'am Walker. I'm gonna torture you a bit. How about some liposuction in the beginning?”

Not waiting for her answer, I took my knife and poured it with alcohol.

“I use only sterile tools,” I said to calm her down. It didn't work.

I carved a square about three to three inches on her belly, left to her navel. I was amazed with her screams, as the wound was really shallow. She was tossing her body, causing my blade made a laceration.

“Calm down and relax!” I said.

“Please, don't kill me!”

“Ma'am, it's not up to me. Your fate depends on the Lord of Death.”

“What?” she asked

I repeated. She started screaming, so I wrapped her mouth with sticky power-tape.

The dark master appeared and watched my doing. Standing left to Mrs. Walker, he nodded his head with recognition. I continued the torment. I lit a torch and put it to the wound to stop bleeding. The smell of burning her tissue was terrible. Then I took a knife in my right hand and sank it about an inch deeper. Fat easily finds its way to almost every available space within human body, but belly gathers the most. I was extracting her fat. I extended my left hand to catch it. It was warm and bloody. I had never done that before, but I guess the Lord of Death must have guided my hand in some supernatural way. I worked like a surgeon, carefully avoiding her intestines. I wanted to get to them later. I disposed the jelly yellow-red  fat pieces to a mug on the ground.

When it was full, I put my finger through the hole in her belly.

“Watch out, or it's gonna hurt.”

She shat on the ground. Maybe it was the pain or maybe the stench of her excrement, or both that he fainted. I felt easily that the tension of her abdominal muscles was gone and I could easily penetrate her viscera.. I moved my blade inside, not pulling the finger back. Slowly, I made a two inch cut in her muscle and put my fingers through I found a section of her intestine and grabbed it. Slowly, I pulled it outside. It took me a while . Drugs in my head and blood caused it was harder to concentrate. Nonetheless, I believed the Lord of Death is guiding my hand. Indeed, everything was going fine and I made it to pull about two feet of her intestines outside.

That's all for today, I thought.

Carefully, I wrapped her wound with a bandage, to prevent her from bleeding out, two feet of her intestine sticking out of the dressing. I covered her naked body with a blanket to prevent from cold. I changed my clothes, washed the blood out and returned home.

The next day Damian was calm during the classes. At last I could conduct it without being interrupted by the spoiled brat. From time to time I looked at him. Undoubtedly, he was worried. “Something bad has happened and Damian Walker's mother was gone,' chatted  teachers in our room. Indeed, the news spread fast.

I visited her immediately after the classes . I brought her something to eat. I changed my clothes, inhaled the crack and offered her a slice of bread, buttered with her own fat. She refused, but drank two mugs of water.

I tried to chase away the flies, gathered over the mug with Mrs. Walker's fat. Obviously it didn't work, so I covered the vessel with a rag. The Lord of Death appeared.

“Don't take the meal away from the flies. Let my servants feast,” he said, his voice boomed in the shed and echoed from its weak walls. It was the first time I heard his voice and had a feeling it could collapse the cote. Shaking, I nodded my head and  followed his order. Then I returned to Diana. She was too tired even to notice the shaking.

“Why are you doing all this to me?” she inquired. “Is it about Damien?”

“No. Not only about him. I fulfill the orders of the Lord.”

Her face showed she didn't understand a thing. I cut her both thumbs and her left ear. Her screaming was grunting, as her throat was already strongly irritated. I put the ear into her mouth and wrapped with a power-tape again.

I sat on a ground, took another dose of crack, and played with her thumbs. When I looked at Mrs. Walker again, I didn't see the Lord of Death behind her. I laid myself down. When the high and the dizziness was gone, I changed clothes and wrapped Diana with a blanket. It was partly wet, as she had peed on it yesterday, but it was her problem. I returned home.

The next day Damien was absent, and the police questioned me at school, just like they did to all other teachers who worked with Damian’s class. I said I didn't know anything.

After classes I made a shopping and arrived to Diana. Another doze of crack and the Lord appeared. He was without his helmet. His had was a head of a goat. He spoke to me again. Shortly.

“Cut off her head!”

I was ordered to cut off Mrs. Walker's head. I took a chainsaw and didn't hesitate. I put her head into a plastic bag from a supermarket. I waited till the high was gone and returned home. For the first time, Diana was (partly) my guest. I stored her head in my fridge.

Damien found it the next day in his backpack. I put it there during the long break, when everybody was outside the classroom. I could only smile insignificantly, watching the terror on his face. The rest of the class focused on Damian’s finding to burst with screaming a while later. I followed the regulations and sent one student to inform the principal. Dorothy called the cops.

The investigation was quick. The police easily learnt I was the only person in the schoolroom during the break. I kept silent during the interrogation. They searched my flat and learnt about the land. I was given a life sentence in a separate cell. Isolated from crack, I couldn't contact the Lord of Death. My life turned to senseless waiting. Shall I meet him after death?
© Dec 2013, Krzysztof Drzazga
