The world divided
THE DARK SIDE

Pazure was walking east. It was dark all around, but his eyes were used to the night. Soon, lightnings flashed in the sky, brightening the surrounding and a storm began. Rain quickly soaked his gray robes of adept of magic and his boots walked in sparse, cold mud. He was young and full of anger. Undoubtedly, it was his wrath that pushed him forward. Soon, he slid on the boggy ground, fell and quickly stood up, but when he tried to make a step he collapsed again.

"Valigoorah! Be damned!" he hissed and stood up once more, this time slowly.

He turned around and rose his clenched fist towards west. It was all dirty with mud, just like most of his body.

"I will come back and this world will be doomed!" he shouted, but his words were drowned by a mighty thunder.

Even if there was no storm, Pazure's promise of vengeance could not be heard in a tower of arch mage Valigoorah. The magical building stood in the vast darkness, on a rocky ground in the very middle of the sorcerer's kingdom. It was not raining here for a longer period of time. The capital of the country was not the only function of the magic tower. Unlike castles of other kingdom rulers in the dark side of the planet, Valigoorah's tower was also a university. Lectures were mostly conducted by the arch mage himself.

It was the beginning of a new semester. He looked at young students gathered in the classroom. No one dared to say a word when mage's eyes scanned their faces. Valigoorah was also silent. It was the second lecture for these freshmen. Students were of different race and origin, mostly teen vampires and werewolves, but also several witches and other humanoids. All of them were his lieges. The mage was a farsighted ruler, who took care about their education. For several recent years he had been more a teacher than a head of the state.

Several candles insignificantly illuminated the room, but for all creatures of the darkness that was fine. Suddenly, Valigoorah's words broke the silence. His voice was soft, but decisive.

"Dual is the world we live in, on a motionless and still globe, illuminated by a star, called the Sun. Its light shines on our planet only from one side, which makes another side utterly dark. Night is our home, our fatherland. Our land is full of magic flowing through the atmosphere and dwelling inside our people. Sorcery, however, is completely useless on the bright side, subject to the laws of physics. Our dragons cannot fly on the bright side anymore than their missiles with nuclear or deadly gas load can't fly on the dark side. They both simply fall down just after crossing the border."

Every year he repeated the same lecture to the next generation of adepts of magic. After the introduction to the topic of the history of the planet, he always took a pipe from the pocket of his brown fine robes, lit it with a spell and took a deep breath. Then he coughed three times and started talking about some of his private experience. He looked at a small window near the corner of the hall. His mood changed and instead of a harsh professor, he looked more like a friendly old man.

"Eh, the side of light. I used to travel there. Each of you could go to the side of the sunlight, but will lose all his magic abilities. I remember crossing the border and watching all the wreckage from the missiles and dead dragons that had crossed the border zone in order to attack our enemies."

He stopped for a while to blow the pipe, coughed three times as usual and carried on with his story.

"The attempt to start a war happened only once in the history, and the zone reminds us about it. We have never found a way to breach the barrier between night and day, nor did we find the spies rumored to be sent into our ranks anymore did they find ours. Ages after that the leaders of countries on both sides understood we should appreciate the balance between us that cannot be broken."

Valigoorah looked at the classroom again. He always accepted amount of apprentices of the sorcery sufficient to fill all the seats in his lecture hall. This time, however, one person was missing, and even though Valigoorah didn't know all his students by name, he knew who was absent. He became irritated.

Pazure, he thought looking at the vacant chair and frowned, my student-mutineer!

Pazure should have been a sophomore, but failed to pass to the next class mostly because of questioning the world order and the authority of Valigoorah himself.

I should have removed the kid from the university, instead of giving him another chance, he sighed. Even though Valigoorah didn't need an excuse to get rid of the boy, now he knew he wouldn't hesitate. He took another blow of his pipe. This time the aroma of marsh tobacco reached even the most distant chairs in the hall. After coughing the mage relaxed and carried on the lecture.

"Deprived of the heat of the Sun, the dark side is much more colder than the bright one. Stars, shining insignificantly on the sky aren't able to warm it up. That is the role of the Underground. Demons produce lava, which flow onto surface through numerous volcanoes distributed throughout the whole dark side of the planet. The volcano infrastructure require constant maintenance, for all the rivers of lava quickly become solid. Thus, the leader of each kingdom needs to take care about good relations with Rokeetah. The master of the Underground wishes the other rulers to express their good will in gold," Valigoorah smiled. "And he always gets what he wants. A proper amount of volcanoes is necessary for every kingdom of the dark side. Too few of them would cause all the living entities to get frozen, while too many could bring doom to castles and villages, flooded by red-hot rivers."

Valigoorah didn't have to tell his students that himself he was an important person on the dark side of the planet too. Partly it was because of his achievements during his spy service. But there was something else, his family relations. He was a son-in-law of the mentioned Rokeetah, the ruler of the Underground, also known as hell on the bright side. Not only his students, but also all his lieges knew it would be very rude to remind that Valigoorah owes his position to his family relations. Pazure knew that too, but it hadn't stopped his from mentioning about these unfair rules during one of Valigoorah's lecture. The arch mage was mad and Pazure would forever remember the mighty magic lightning that almost killed him after insulting the ruler. However, he recovered and didn't care much about that incident.

That's very good he's been gone, thought the mage and put his left hand into his pocket to refill the pipe with marsh tobacco. His young age could not justify his disobedience.

The balance, mentioned during the lecture by Pazure's former master, gave both sides a kind of sense of security, the value of which they learned to appreciate. Pazure definitely did not. The storm was over and soon his robes got dry. The boy continued his way through the eternal darkness of his homeland towards the border. His master predicted where Pazure was traveling, but even though he was able to draw his student back, he certainly didn't want to.

During his journey Pazure met a pack of goblins feasting upon a dead corpse. He couldn't recognize what their meal used to be when it was alive and didn't intend to bother the green scavengers. Then he camped at a lava pool to get warmer and crossed troll Hooda's bridge over the stinky Excrement River, paying the toll of one golden coin. Less than a thousand paces further he passed an orcish camp. The Fighting Olympic Games must just have started, he thought looking at banners waving over a wooden gate and a palisade and hearing cheering shouts from behind the fencing.

Soon Pazure almost approached the border zone which he recognized on big tubes of rockets, some empty inside and some still with poisonous gas warheads and full fuel tanks. He knew the several clouds of deadly mist, coming out of rusty tanks was completely harmless on this side of the globe. Anyway, he didn't like the bitter smell, irritating his nostrils. The scrap yard was partially grown with moss, and the area was slightly brighter, as the border was now quite close.

Gradually, he entered the twilight zone. It was the place of everlasting sunrise or everlasting sunset, depending on which side of the planet an observer was turned toward. The Meridian Zero with its surroundings was no man's land. As the place where science and magic met together, it was the most dangerous ring of several kilometers, embracing the whole planet. No one could predict if the given square meter of its surface is more subject to the laws of science, laws of magic, or both and which rules would have more influence. It stretched from the North to the South Pole and behind them turned into the Meridian 180 degrees, which had the same properties. In this territory of shades everything depended on the landscape and if rays of the Sun gave more or less intensive shades. Also the clouds of poisonous gas could be less or more active. Pazure knew he had to be extremely careful.

For a moment Pazure thought, he saw an outline of some creature, and after few minutes of browsing through the waste he heard a short squeak. It repeated after a while, and soon he realized, he was surrounded by a group of three gargoyles. He knew he had already entered the Meridian Zero area. One monster was standing several feet before him, two others on his left and right side. He knew he couldn't escape from the ambush, and so knew the gargoyles. Running through poisonous clouds seemed to be the only way out.

It seems now I cannot choose a safer way through Meridian Zero area, he sighed.

He kept direct eye to eye contact with the largest gargoyle, ready to react on any his attempt to attack. From time to time he also peeked at his companions. But monsters didn't hurry and Pazure knew why. Every several seconds the other gargoyles were joining the squad which had stopped Pazure. Monsters were using their bat-like wings to move. They were flying low, as thin wings were not strong enough to carry a relatively big body high in the air. On the other hand, if monsters were using their legs, they were moving terribly slow.

"Dinner, at lassst" hissed a fat gargoyle, who joined the squad a while ago.

Soon there were nine gargoyles standing before him. Unfortunately for Pazure, he couldn't use a teleport spell to sneak out of the ambush, as it required a great concentration of mind, impossible while he was surrounded by enemies. As the first astonishment was gone, the young magician decided to take the only way and enter the deadly zone.

Monsters were laughing.

"Freshshsh meat!" sinisterly hisses the largest gargoyle.

There was no time to consider any different option as hesitation would surely be deadly for Pazure. He held his breath and started running. Deadly gas was more harmful to his lungs than to eyes. Running through the poisonous mist, Pazure felt his pupils burning anyway. Just several meters away from the site of gargoyles' ambush was a natural rock formation shaped into a niche. Inside, Pazure took cover and breath. It was not utterly dark in the niche, but he found out that gas wasn't harmful almost at all in that place. He looked at his opponents. Only three gargoyles were chasing him and the rest seemed to try to find some other way to get Pazure. He made one step back into the niche and couldn't do another one as he felt the rocky wall on his back. Anyway, it was dark enough to try a spell. Bitter feeling of irritated eyes made it harder for him to concentrate, but he prepared a fireball. His lungs, irritated with gas demanded coughing, but Pazure didn't want to let his enemies know he was just at the entrance of the niche.

I'll let them think it is an entrance to some big grotto. Otherwise, they would expect some ambush, he thought.

Now he was waiting for gargoyles to make a sneak peek in the niche. Soon they did and two gray heads appeared at the entrance almost simultaneously, hissing. He threw the magic missile of fire towards them. Monsters couldn't even make a single scream and collapsed with their heads burning. The smell of burnt tissue of their bodies was somehow pleasant, as it partially suppressed the bitter smell of deadly gas.

They must be shocked now. I'm off! Pazure made a quick decision.

Again he held his breath and closed one eye.

At least my left eye will not be irritated, thought he.

Another quick run allowed Pazure to take cover between two four-meter-high rocks. He heard loud hissing and swearing of gargoyles behind him. The shade wasn't perfect, but sufficient to take a breath. The air he was breathing in hurt his lungs as the poisonous cloud must have been a bit more active here. He looked towards the dark side. The third gargoyle from the group which was chasing him was lying dead, killed with the gas. The remaining monsters were mad, but didn't mind to chase him.

Fireball was the first and also the last spell of young adept of magic in his journey. Victorious Pazure was carefully and slowly browsing among the poisonous clouds. Sometimes he closed his eyes and held his breath to run many meters through some cloud of deadly gas and stopped in the nearest shade to take a breath. Fortunately, his skin was very sensitive for sunlight, as he wasn't familiar with it. Thus, it was pretty easy to find out if he was in shady area or not despite closed eyes. Finally, he crossed the border. Having stepped into the land of the sunlight, he lost his magical abilities.

THE LIGHT SIDE

Browsing through the field littered with remains of dragons from the Only War, Pazure wondered if his skeleton would soon lie there too. He had never experienced such amount of sunlight. The air was terribly hot, and for the first time the young immigrant realized his robes were really thick.  Sweat was going down his forehead and cheeks, when he was walking under huge ribs of a skeleton of a dragon.

At least they give some shade, he thought wiping sweat off his face.

The area was grown with small plants, including flowers. Old bones were covered with moss which made them green. People walking deeper and deeper in the land of the sunlight had a pleasant feeling of life defeating the death, accompanied with lovely scent of flowers. Pazure, however, preferred his home of darkness and was brought to the land of the sunlight by his curiosity and aversion towards Valigoorah.

He wanted to find a city. He passed by a huge solar power plant. Solar collectors covered a vast surface of the land. Walking under them, sometimes on hands and knees, sometimes leaning, Pazure could feel some relief from the heat. Soon he found the city. Over every settlement, even a small village, there were huge lens, transparent but tinted. This city was called Namslov and was no different. In fact all the covers were huge versions of sunglasses lens, and they dispersed a big amount of the sunlight, so that people in cities could live a normal life.

Pazure was over enjoyed, when he found a huge refuse dump in the suburbs. It was stinky and thousands of flies were buzzing around, but he found there dirty trainers, a pair of worn out jeans and an old T-shirt. Years later he often laughed that he had no idea what people on the bright side wear and if he found a woman dress, he would not hesitate to wear it. He changed quickly. His robes of the adept of magic, he once had been so proud of, laid on a heap of garbage.

Indeed, people here lived in very different conditions from the people and creatures of the latter side. One of their achievements was social care. After few days spent on a street, young, ragged and smelly Pazure came to such an office, and introduced himself as an orphan. He was fed, given a shelter, and sent to school.

After several years Pazure knew he found a new home in the world of the sunlight, although he still couldn't utterly get used to such great amount of the sunlight. Strong desire for knowledge drove him to university. It was very different from Valigoorah's school. Here students had some rights. He graduated the Faculty of Physics with specialization in nuclear energy, and started a scientific career. The environment of scientists seemed to be open for new ideas, and he was hopeful to find a soul mate. When two years of his scientific work had passed, he had some reasons to be satisfied.

Pazure made friends with Chris, a young scientists. He talked a lot and ate a lot. Every day they had lunch in university canteen, where Chris did both. He had blond short hair, glasses and at least fifty pounds overweight.

"Paz, I am simply amazed with your knowledge of the world." said Chris chewing a chicken. "Not only have you more and more achievements in nuclear research, but also you know a lot about the dark side."

Pazure was sitting on the other side of a small table in the canteen. He moved his chair closer to Chris, and spoke to him quietly.

"I'll tell you in secret that I used to know people from the dark side. Both nations think, they are totally different, but I could see some chance in working together and breaking the barriers between two sides of our planet. Unfortunately, we are too much close-minded, without any tendency to open for a different lifestyle. If only I could break the border of night and day, I would not hesitate a second."

"Break the border and join the two worlds?" said Chris rapidly, spitting few small parts of chicken right on Pazure's face."Crazy, dangerous and, above all, impossible, thank God! Probably you could write a theoretical article with your ideas, and maybe some scientific magazine would even accept it and publish, but I'm afraid that's beyond our field of research. It's rather philosophy, sociology, or something between."

Pazure frowned, but patiently wiped food leavings from his face. Chris was so excited with his friend's idea that didn't notice this incident.

"I would not be so sure," said Pazure "I do have some idea, but still need to make some computations."

"Idea, uh? I believe you need to hold on with it now. Haven't you received an official letter?"

"No. I haven't checked my mailbox yet."

"For sure you must have been sent the same copy I received.", continued Chris, "All our team will be assigned to a new project for military. Soon we will move to the atomic camp, somewhere on the Fox Desert, I think we shall work on a new warhead, but they didn't say it directly. That would mean a direct contact with nukes."

"Interesting!"

"Better don't mention this chance to work together with the dark side to military guys. We've been waiting for that occasion since the beginning of our work here. Haven't we?"

Both men discussed the details of the research, they were about to make in the atomic base. However, most of details they didn't know, as anything connected with military, and especially with nuclear arms was top secret. As the talk was coming to the end, Chris dared to ask another question.

"Was it not your doing that we were given this assignment?"

"No. Why?"

Chris was looking at Pazure for a while, thinking about something. Then he spoke.

"You told me in confidence that you know people from the dark side. I appreciate you trust me, and also will tell you in equally great confidence that for a long time I've been suspecting you were a spy!"

Pazure was shocked with his words. Though they were not true, they would have meant troubles for Pazure if Chris decided to inform the authorities.

Chris, however, smiled.

"Your impression on my words is the best confirmation for them. You come from an orphanage, have no family, all the time you spent on research. You would be the best candidate for a spy. Your knowledge about the dark side proves that our government had once sent you to spy amidst the night. And now this contract for the army. Surely you must have used your contacts to make our institute get it."

Pazure was thinking fast. Our government? My contacts? He takes me for a spy, working for the bright side. He doesn't suspect where I come from.

He felt a great relief.

"You are wrong, Chris! I cannot tell you anything, but remember that it is not as you are thinking!"

"Yes! Sure! Confidence above all".

Chris ate the last piece of his chicken. As the meal was over, the talk was too and Pazure felt a relief. They never returned to this talk, anymore Pazure never sat close to Chris while he was eating.

Two months later their whole scientific team moved to the desert. Indeed, their task was to research a proper nuclear load for a new warhead. For several weeks, simultaneously to atomic analysis Pazure worked over his own idea.

At some point he thought, he found the way to join both worlds together, but it still required some computations to prove. The bright side and especially the nuke base was a perfect site to perform the operation, but for Pazure it was utterly obvious that neither any commander nor political leader would accept his plan. Not with their way of thinking.

A day came, when Pazure found a chance to make his plan come true. General Lamignat, one of the highest commanders in the base, left the key necessary to launch the nukes. Obviously, it was against the regulations and Pazure decided to take the advantage of his mistake. Nevertheless, two keys were needed to perform launching. The second one was in the pocket of General Veerdab who at that moment was at the command center. Pazure came to him armed with a knife, taken from the kitchen. The commander was assisted only by one technician. Both were looking at a monitor screen, discussing some technical issues. Pazure closed the door from inside, so that no one else could get in and interrupt his operation. He was fast and two dead bodies fell down on the floor and rested in a big puddle of blood. Someone started the alarm, having seen what happened. Pazure was breathing fast, but kept calm. He dropped the knife. His hands and clothes were red in blood. He approached the main computer.

The operation of launching the rockets will take exactly ten minutes and thirty nine seconds, he though. It should work.

Pazure set the same target for all twenty three missiles which were still in their silos - another desert right on the equator on the bright side. He didn't make a double check for his calculations. There was no time.

Now or never! he thought and took a risk. The stake was the highest possible.

He heard noise behind his back and turned around. Few soldiers were banging the door with axes. Someone fired a shot, but Pazure knew the door were bullet proof. He recalled his promise shouted towards Valigoorah's tower during the storm, and knew it would come true just in the moment. The old world was supposed to be gone.

"Three... two... one... Go!" he shouted and laughed aloud.

Launch occurred without problem and deadly load was already in the air. It took about ten minutes more for the military police to break into the command room. Pazure gave up, laughing all the time.

Warheads exploded one after another on a several kilometer section of a desert. Even though it happened in a distance of few thousand kilometers from the Fox Desert, the military base shook. It was crucial for Pazure that the trajectory of missiles was as flat as possible when each of them would hit the ground. Explosions carve a huge canyon in the ground of a desert.

While the dark side was subject to magic, the science, including statistics, determined life on the bright side. One of the main laws of statistics says that among a mass of people in a society there are always few extraordinary, talented units, as well as few dumb ones, the majority of people being average. Curious amateurs of classic photography definitely belonged to the second group. Desire to take incredible, unique photos pushed them to the site of nuke bombing. Radiation was a double curse for them, inflicting harm not only to their health, but also radiating the clich?s. Digital camera users were in this case more privileged, though equally harmed.

But weeks before these photographers could face the consequences of their own stupidity, Pazure was taken in custody and interrogated by General Dusigross. The commander was tall and stocky. Sitting tied to a chair, Pazure expected tough questions, but received a powerful blow instead, right into his stomach. It hurt, and Pazure couldn't decide if the pain was worse than the bright bulb shining now straight into his eyes.

"I guess you know your situation is hopeless," Dusigoss's voice was unexpectedly calm. "Why did you do that?"

The General didn't wait for the answer and another punch smashed Pazure's nose. Coughing with blood he didn't answer.  A messenger came into the interrogation room and saluted.

"Sir! Here is a quick report. Missiles hit the desert. Huge radiation, but no human victims." he said.

General open his eyes widely in astonishment, then he put his right hand on his chin and was thinking for a while. Pazure was glad he ceased beating, even if only for a moment.

"So you just wanted to eliminate our weapons, right? Well, your success in disarming is not full. We still have ten times as much nuclear missiles in other secret bases.

That was significantly exaggerated, since their arsenals contained less than three times more nukes. Dusigross just wanted to make impression on interrogated Pazure, but he was not successful.

"Do you come from the dark side?" he asked after a while.

Pazure thought it would be pointless to deny.

"I do," he spat words together with bloody saliva. It went down his chin.

General rose his fist for another blow, so Pazure closed his eyes. However, Dusigross hesitated when he saw another messenger with a sheet of paper.

"Sir! We have just received a report from meteorology service. Seems important!"

The soldier nervously looked at the paper, and reading quickly, tried to figure out the meaning of the report.

"Something happened to our planet just after the explosion! They have reported some moves of the border between the dark and the bright side, possibly caused by the missiles which hit the ground at a very acute angle."

He stopped and looked at the General.

"Sir! It's incredible, but our planet... It is now revolving!!!"

General was shocked. Pazure, still sitting with his eyes shut, smiled, feeling  great pleasure. His plan, he spent the whole life on, was now successful. The division between light and dark was now gone, and day and night were about to occur consecutively one after another, all over the globe. Creatures of the night: goblins, orcs, gargoyles, undead, and others were to hide during the day to creep from their hideouts at night, when humans would lay themselves to sleep. Merging the two worlds, believed to be impossible by people from both sides of the planet was now the accomplished fact.

Just try to light your pipe with magic now, Valigoorah, thought Pazure chuckling. You will have to wait till the ... hmmm.

He didn't know the word 'evening'. So far, no one did.

After a while General's astonishment was gone, and his words reminded Pazure where he was.

"Now it's all clear. This nuclear explosion is one thing, not so easy to judge now, but surely he will be executed for a double murder. Take him away!" he ordered to guards.

Indeed, that was a new problem for Pazure now. Heavy metal door slammed behind his back and he was imprisoned.

At least my hands aren't tied now, he thought, wiping blood from his face.

He was worried about his future, but he found his small cell quite comfortable. It was dark and chilly, just like his homeland. He looked at a tiny window high at the ceiling. He thought about the Sun and smiled. He got an idea. He knew that if all his predictions came true, he would avoid the trial and punishment. So far he had been right.

After several hours Pazure looked at the tiny window again. The Sun was about to set for the first time. Soon the Fox Desert, where the base with its internal prison were located, was covered with dusk. Pazure heard the guards behind the door of his cell were excited with that fact. Anyway, he didn't care about this. He felt his magic abilities were back, and draw a simple sign in the air, the one he had practiced so many times in Valigoorah's university. The teleport spell worked fine and took him to the desert. The nilitary base was now behind his back. Pazure looked around, but there were no guards. He laughed aloud and started running.

"Now, to Valigoorah's tower!"

THE END 